Ellen Armistead died Sep. / 46
Our late Sr was born at the farm
house nr the bottom of Tory-lane
Octr 29th 1789. Her parents brot her & 
all their children with them to our
chapel, which they constantly attended.
They afterwards joined our church,
are both buried interred in our burying ground.
In her 13th year she went to reside
in the Srs' house at Wyke, & continued 
there till that institution was
broken up in 1805; she then came
to Fulneck, & resided in the S. Srs.
house, where she was employed a
short time in the wash, & then near
ly 4 yrs. as cook. She then lived for
10 years with her mother at West
gate-hill. Both of them came to
Fulneck every Sunday, & on all fes
tive occassions when it was practi
cable. In the yr 1825, they both came
to this place & took 2 rooms
to reside in our Srs' house here.
following
Next yr our late Sr went to live
with Br. & Sr. Holmes; & was after
wards twice housekeeper & cook in
the S. Brns' house. She then retired
into the Sisters' house, & lived there
until Decr. 1843, when she married 
her her relict Br. Willm Armistead.
She had the happiness to know the
truth from her childhood & that
we have every reason to believe, not


only theoretically, but so, that her
heart was lovingly influenced thereby,
so that she devoted herself to the Lord, & 
lived in communion with Him. She was 
recd into the church in 1805 & addmit
ted to the H. Comn in 1808. Like all 
for who does not
of us who feel the effects of our natural 
corruption, more less to our his dying day
the flesh beating against the spirit
the spirit against the flesh. she had 
her failings as well as her sharp con
flicts & heavy trials; yet, generally 
speaking, her spirit & conduct were
consistent with her profession; & occa
sional spiritual conversation with
her showed that she knew herself to
be a poor sinner, but that she belie
ved in him as her all-sufficient
Savr., loved him & clave to him
A few days before her last illness
commenced, we called upon her & her
husband, & had a conversation, chiefly
of a spiritual character, with them, 
when we were struck with her being
unusually & pleasingly fluent &
communicative on the concerns of
her soul. She appears to have taken
cold on Septr 7th; but the com 
plaint soon developed itself as
the English cholera. As, however, 
she did not suppose it was anything
serious, she continued her usual oc
cupations for a fortnight, tho' very
weak & poorly. At length she was ne


cessitated to call in medical ad
vice; but, in spite of all the
mesures used, she grew worse, &, on
Tuesday morning last between 5 & 6,
she fell into a sleep which, for several
hours, was thot to be a natural & 
refreshing slumber; at length, however,
it appeared to be a stupor from which
she would never awake; she was then
fore recd the usual blessing for her
departure between 7 & 8 a.m. on Wed
nesday mor & abt. 11 o'clock breathed
her last. of course in a state of
unconsciousness.
She had, on several occasions, previous
to her sinking into this lethargy
state, spoken very satisfactorily of
her spiritual state, & of her hope &
confidence in her Redeemer. She
declared her consciousness of her
own sinfulness & rotten demerit
saying, on one occasion, "When I look
at myself I see nothing but only sin &
misery; & nothing but turning to
my Savr can comfort & cheer me."
But she clave to Jesus with purpose
of heart, saying "Poor sinner as I am,
I know whom I have believed; I feel
our Savrs mercy & peace; for He is
with, He is near me." & being 
asked if she had a good hope, that
He would receive her she replied; "I
have not the least doubt, that He
will do so, for His mercy & merits."


We cannot have, therefore, a confident
hope that she has entered into that
rest, which remaineth for the people
of God.
Her character was such, that she
was generally respected while living
& is as generally regretted when dead.
Her own relations loved her & her
husband's children & grandchildren,
one of whom was the last
person conveyed to our burying-ground
never felt no little affection for
her. Her relict declares no more could
have a more affectionate & valuable
helpmate than he has lost in her. He
speaks particularly of her spirituality
of mind; as one proof of which he has
told the writer, that she used to take
great delight in the family devotion
which they held together, in the mid
night hour each day, so that (she
would cheerfully rise from her bed to join him
in it) even tho' she had retired, con
trary to her usual practice, while
he went his rounds as watchman
her afflicted husband's 
May the Lord her her support &
under his bereavement
comfort & give him & all her rela
tives grace to make their calling &
election sure! Yea, may we all
meet her & others who have gone be
fore us, in the city of the living God, 
& before the throne of the Lamb!
Her age was 57 years within 28
days.


