Our late Sr Mary Armstrong
was born in Ireland Jan. 18 / 93
& was taken, when a child of 8 or 9 years
of age, to our Ladies' Boarding School
at Gracehill, then under the superinten
dance of our Sr Montgomery, at prest
residing here. While at school she showed
great excellent abilities & made great progress in
learning. In 1810 she went with Br. & Sr. 
Montgomery to Okbrook, where
she lived in the Sisters house 1 year. She
then accepted an appointment as Teacher
in our Ladies' Boarding School at Bed
ford & remained in that situation 10
yrs. In 1821 she went to Gracehill as
Governess of the Ladies School there; 
from thence, in 2 or 3 years to Wyke, in
the same capacity. She then lived a 
short time in a gentleman's family
in Leciestershire; &, after spending
a few months with her much esteem
ed friends Br. & Sr. Montgomery in at
Okbrook, entered upon the office of first
Teacher in our Girls' Boarding school
here & held that which situation she held till
midsummer last year. About
that time her health began to fail; &
in the course of last summer she gra
dually grew worse her complaint or
rather complication of diseases complaints baffling
all medical skill. In Septr last 
she went first to Kirkstall, then to
Harrogate, to try the effect of change of
air; but the illness her diseases gained ground


& she returned much weaker than she went
in Oct towards the end of October. She
now grew rapidly worse, & her sufferings
were often severe. At length on Tuesday
morning last, about 8 o'clock a.m. it
pleased the Lord to put a period ot her 
trials & afflictions & she fell gently
& happily asleep in Jesus at the age
of 55 years & 11 mos.
The good seed which was sown in 
was later her heart at that time 
hardly sprang up & gave good fruit through
out her life. (The ministry of the
word, the means of grace public & 
private & the faithful & judicious
training of her much revered Gov
verness, while she was at school in
Gracehill were much greatly blessed to
our late Sister's soul & she had
her peculiarities; but she was, beyond
all doubts, a true, conscientious &
faithful ????. She read the scrip
tures diligently & regularly, & not
only read, but studied them, 
placing a high value for on them 
delighting to search
it them. Her views of saving truth
were very clear & her convictions deep
& decided; & she was rather fond of
discussing scriptural subjects.
She was faithful in self-examina
tion & in prayer. In the important 
business of educating youth, to which
occupied the greater portion of her 
life, she was earnest & assiduous & successful, de


voting her fine talents & varied & ex
tensive knowledge with faithfulness
& concern to the performance of her du
ties & no doubt many of her pupils
??? a few of whom are now present
feel deep gratitude for her teach
instructions but for her advice her warn
during her last illness she
ings & ?? rebukes showed great & exemplify
patience under acute suffering
& very delightful & edifying humility of spirit.
While at Harrogate she called in a phy
sician, who candidly told her he saw no
hope whatever of her recovery. This led
her as she expressed herself in a Letter to
a friend, to examine herself more strict
ly as to her hopes for eternity; The conse
quence of this serious proving of her 
own self she states to be this, that she
was led, on the one hand to mourn
deeply over her unprofitable life; but
that on the other hand when humbly
confessing her sins & imploring for
giveness she found it & had peace
in the prospect of death. 
It is a singular remarkable feature in her of
the complaints from which she suffered
that it leads the patient almost to
the last to flatter himself with hopes
of recovery; & in case he is a true
believer, it is not a little singular to
hear him, one moment speaking of
his trust in the Savr & her good hope of
acceptance thro' grace, of death being
gave to himself as a child of God. 
She went declaring his expectation that
he will soon as well recover. The writer has
met with many instances of this sin
gular symptom of consumption in


the course of his ministry & our
late sister was not the least striking 
among them, for frequently after
conversing in such a strain, that it
was clear she not only expected
death, but rejoiced in the prospect
of it, she suddenly turned the sub
ject to her hope of soon being well
again. But she said, to more than one
dear friend, "If I die, it will be a happy
exchange for me, I shall go to the Lord."
For our occassion addressing
she added said: I should wish to live
a few years longer, if it were the Lords
will, for some reasons you know; but for
me it will be better if I go." Another
consequence of her complaint was ex
cessive nervousness, so that she had a 
dread of seeing even her friends. Hence
her minister did not see her until it
became apparent that her end could not
after he had seen her once
be very distant; he then went up 
& being visited he always was gladly
At the first interview he
welcome, had a satisfactory conversa
tion with her, in which she stated, that
she had not the smallest doubt of her ac
the conversation was followed by
ceptance, & concluded with a prayer
on her behalf, she frequently adding
Amen to the petitions. Her choir la
bourer also frequently saw her & had 
pleasing conversations with her. Now 
too, she admitted other ??? friends,
as well as her minister & Labourer
more frequently. The medicine she
took caused her to ramble a good deal;
yet she was almost always collected
when spiritual subjects were brot be
fore her, & answered every question 


as to her belief & hope in a clear & une
quivocal manner. To our friend she
declared, on being asked, that her only
trust was in our Lord & Savr Jesus, Amen.
To another, that she felt her Savrs pre
sence, not uninterrupedly, indeed, 
but often & that He blessed & cheered
her most richly. She rejoiced to see her 
sister & niece arrive from Dublin on
Sunday evening. The same afternoon
prayer having been offered up with her, a
few verses were sung, in which she
joined as well as she could; & in 
the lines, "Here comes a sinner, who
would fain Thro' the Lambs entrance
gain" she made a strong effort
to sing with us. She was visited
twice aft The last time her minis
ter saw her was Tuesday morning; 
she was more collected, but in great
pain; of it she ejaculated a fervent
Amen! at the close of the prayer.
In the afternoon she attempted to
give some directions respecting her
worldly affairs to a friend, but was
scarcely intelligible. He
offered up the last prayer with her
??? length the moment of release
came, & her redeemed spirit took
its flight; she was sensible to the last.
She added, that her state of mind
& feeling was well expressed in that
verse of Toplady's beautiful hymn: No
thing in my hand I bring &c. (see No 960)
And, in a conversation she had with
a dear friend shortly after her return,
she repeated the same verse, the tears 


flowing down her cheeks, & added, "I know
I am a poor sinner, & the language 
of that verse unto my call; but I know too, that
I am forgiven & reconciled thro' grace!"


