Departed May 5 1761
Hannah Ashly was born at Hartshead. Aug 20 1740
Yorkshire
Thro' the Conduct of my Parents, & the
Education I rec'd from them, I became in my
Infancy desireous of an acquaintance with our
Savr, whereupon I entered into the care of the
Bren, & about my 6th year, I frequented went to the
School in Morefield, where one Day Bror Heltd
being in a close Conversation with the Children
made mentioned of the wound in our Savrs  Side-Hole which par
ticularly drew my attention, it seem'd to me as
if I has never heard of that Place before, I
cou'd not rest till I had made Enquiry about it
of one of my Sisrs, who inform'd me that it
was the Place which the Soldier pierc'd when
Our Savr shed His Blood for the Remission of Sins
& expired on the Cross for the Salvation of all
poor Sinners; this fill'd me with a real concern
& encreas'd my desire after the Knowledge of our
Savr & I long'd very much to know that dear
Place in His Side, & to be therein a happy &
good Child: in order to attain thereto I occu
pied myself in learning Verses, & thought by
constant singing of our Savr & His side, to
procure for myself that acquaintance with
Him, which my heart wanted. when speaking
with my Sisr who kept the School, she told me
that the Method I had began wou'd not bring
me make me acquainted with our Savr, this touch'd me
very deeply & brought many Tears from my Eyes


she also added, that if we children desired
to become our dear Savrs & wou'd pray Him
to bless us, He wou'd draw near to our Hearts
& make us happy thro' the Merits of those
wounds which we were so desireous of being
acquainted with. to all this I listen'd very at
tentively, & went on 4 or 5 years, longing Child
likely in my Heart to become our Savrs. in my
10th year I was put into a Class with other
Children which was very weighty to me, here I
perceiv'd that I had not yet attain'd to any
feeling Knowledge in my Heart, which I from this
Time continued longing after. In my 13th Year
I was rec'd by our dear Sisr Anna Johanna
into the great-Girls Choir, which proved a real
Blessing to me caus'd in me such a new stiring of
Grace in me, that I felt nothing cou'd
satisfie me until my dearest Savr wou'd please
to manifest himself to my worthless Heart, that
I thereby might be cured of all my Sinfulness
thro' His precious Blood; This Longing continued
till my 15th year, in which I felt a change &
unsteadiness in my self, which caus'd me many
heavy hours, I privately bemoan'd this my Con
dition with many Tears: I felt my self overpowerd
with the Depravity of my Nature, hence I with
drew as much as possible from all kind of
Fellowship, not knowing in these Critical moments


which way to take, & wou'd rather have given
up all than feel the Perplexities which I now
Labour'd under in this Extreamity of heart
mind I withdrew into a Field, when I prostrat
ed before my Lord & maker beging Him to direct
& shew me what course to take; after a few mom
ments Pause, I felt an Intimation in my Heart
to return to my former Purpose of becoming
entirely our Savrs. here my great Perplexity
left me & I felt some Comfort; I plainly per
ceived the dangerous Path I had been pursuing
by my unfaithful Course, which caused me many
Tears. I chearfully returned to my class & converse
with my dear Labourer about the situation of my
Heart, & beg'd Forgiveness. all the opportunities
were now more lively & engaging to me than
before. I felt a real fellowship with my Choir &
a Degree of Comfort in my Heart.
In my 16th Year I had the Grace to be rec'd into
the Congn, it was quite unexpected I being from
a sense of my great unworthiness discouraged
& almost out of Hope & cou'd not expect
to enjoy such a Grace, this together with my
reception into the little Virgins Choir (which hap
pen'd about the same time) fill'd my Heart & Eyes
with blushing es & Tears & bow'd me in the very dust
for shame; feeling I was at this Interval under
to Special Labour of the dear Mother by whose


gracious Intimations I saw & felt the Depravi
ty of my wretched nature & that I was not yet
according to my Savrs mind, yet I felt refresh
ing comforts from His precious Nearness.
I now felt a great Desire to live in the Choir
House but my circumstances, not permiting it, I was
much grieved & shed many Tears on that account.
but I enjoy'd the opportunities Meetings with real Grace &
Blessing. In my 18th year I obtained leave to move
into the Gummersel Oeconomy, this was a blessed
School for my poor Heart, here in Conversation &
Fellowship with the Sisrs my Heart came into a
closer Connexion with my dearest Savr & a better
Understanding of the blessed Lessons from the dear
Holy-Ghost. at this time I also felt a great long
ing in my Heart after the
Enjoyment of my dear Lords Corpse & Blood; the
Novr following, I became a Partaker of that in
expressable Grace which melted me into shame
& deep Abatement. about 6 months after I re
moved into the Choir-House where I was plac'd
among the great-Girls, this was a quite par
ticular Period of my Life wherein the faithful
Labour of the dear Mother brought me to feel
how short I still was in the true Knowledge of
the Sinner Point. At that remarkable & by me
never to be forgotten Choir Communion March 1759
I also saw my deficiency in Sacrament & Choir
Ideas, which made a deep Impression upon my


my Heart. at the Participation of the holy corpse I got
an Insight into my connexion with my dearest
Savr so as I never felt it before.
On the Single Sisrs Festival May 1759 I was
rec'd into the Single Sisrs Choir: this aweful Trans
action made a deep Impression upon me; my Heart
thus seiz'd & overpowerd enter'd into a Covenant with
my Savr to live & abide by Him eternally from
this very Day. The Opportunities on this special Day of
Grace & Blessing, together with my Transition from my
late Choir & Class Companions, had such an effect
upon me, that now a new Schooling commenc'd.
I attaind to a farther Knowledge of my Heart &
natural Depravity; but thro' the Grace & Fellowship
which I enjoyd among the Sisrs, & also the blessed
Labour in my Choir, I learnt how to treat, & bring
each Circumstance before the Heart of my dearest
Bridegroom, who by his bloody Grace overstream'd and
helped me on from Day to Day, so that I became
quite chearful & happy in my Heart & thankful for
that blessed Election which united & incircled me in
His Virgin-Choir.
After some months enjoyment of a blessed Intercourse
of Grace & Special Leading of my best Friend, I was
attack'd by symptoms of a Disorder which very much
affected my mind, & in some measure retarded my happy
& chearful course; thus I spent some months in serious
Thoughts a Reflections, believeing at the same Time that
my dearest Savr suffer'd my body to be afflicted in
order to keep me the more circumspectly by my Heart.
thus for her own Words


Towards the later End of Decr 1760. she moved
into the Sick-Room: here one cou'd plainly per
ceive that she had Hopes her Time wou'd not
be long, which caus'd a particular Chearfulness in her
Look. her ardent longing was to be speedily releas'd
from her bodily Pain, haveing endur'd a great Deal,
her Disorder being of an oppressive kind, & of a long
Duration, she became again somewhat thoughtful con
cerning her Heart: she often said "O what can there
be between me & my Savr which delays my going
to Him. in this her concern of mind we comforted
her, & bid her have Patience. April 5th 1761 her Class
Sisrs had a Love-Feast in the Sick-Room, which was
an particular Joy to her. she frequently ask'd if any
one cou'd informe her of the Time when her wish'd
for Hour would strike, to know this was all she wanted
for nothing cou'd satisfie her heart, but the Thoughts
of giveing her Bridegroom soon the meeting.
Thus she spent her Days in a Sabbatick stillness
speaking very little.
On the 4th of may she desir'd to see Sisr Mary whom
she saluted with a particular Chearfulness & Serenity,
which was observ'd by all the Sisrs in the Room. we
were all of Opinion that she might probably go
that Day, when this was mentiond to her, she seem'd
extremly glad thereof, but when she recolected that
all the Sisrs wou'd be engag'd (it being our Festival) &
might to some be inconvinient, she knew not what to
choose; yet said she, I am truely resignd to the
will of my best Freind, may He do with me His poor
Child according to His Heart, for now I am quite satis


fied. Thus the spent this day of Grace with a
chearful Heart, tho' in great Pain of Body.
Towards Night she alter'd very much a became speechless,
by which it was desernable that her Dissolution drew near.
in this situation she continued till about 3 in the
morning, when her Laboures kept her an anointed
Liturgy, & imparted unto her the Blessing of her Choir.
Thus the Home-sick Dove took flight into the Wounds
of her beloved Bridegroom, about 4 O'Clock in the
Morning in the 21st year of her age.
She has left in her Choir the Charracter
of an honest, upright, & enamourd Virgin Heart.
She was the whole Time of her sickness very
agreeable to all about her, & behaved with becom
ing Patience. she with Childlikeness continued to
deport her self, with a Heart truely thankful
for all the Care & nursing which was bestowed upon
her in the Sick-Room.
Her Behaviour evidenc'd a particular Nearness of
the Person of her dearest Bridegroom. At the En
joyment of her dear Lords Corpse & Blood, (of which
she was on her Sick-Bed 5 times a Partaker) her
heart was sinnerlikely thankful; this renderd her
Home-sickness bearable, until the was favour'd
with the Kiss of His pale Lips.
May the 5th 1761


