Departed March 24th 1761
Our Brother Joshua Barker was born in the Year 1696,
on the 22nd of December at Hopton in the Parish of Mirfield he lived with his
Father till 19 Years of Age at which time he was put Apprentice to a Broad-Cloth-
ier in that neighborhood, he was married to his present Widow the 13th of July
1719 by whom he has had 8 Childrn two of whom went home in their Infancy
and one at Mans Estate and of the 5 survising ones, one Son is a member of
our Society, he liv'd happily with his Wife and being of a religious turn he went
with his Wife constantly to the Church & Sacrament, and had religious Meet-
ings kept in his house where they us'd to pray and read Burkets Exposition on
the new Testament; his self working was for some time in his way, so that to
be a poor Sinner at the feet of Jesus was a hard matter to him for some time,
and he was a long time among the Brn before he got a feeling of our Savrs Dying
Love in his heart. When Mr Ingham preach'd in the Beginning in these parts
he went to hear him, his Wife at first was against it; but upon her hearing
both Br Ockertshausen at her own house her Prejudice dropt away and they both went
both together, he always had a great attachment to the Brn, and upon the his
Land Lords being against the Preaching at his house, he rather left it than com-
ply with his Desire not to let the Gospel be preach'd there. He soon became
a Member of our Society, and had the Grace to be receiv'd on the 22d of April
1752 into the Congn & Nov. 19th in the same year he partook of the highest Good in
the holy Sacrament for the first time. Within these 2 Years he has occasionally
said to his Wife I shall not be long here but shall soon be go home, but don't be trou-
bled for you will not stay long after me. At the regulating of the Bands and Classes
anew in January 1760 he became a Band Servant, in which capacity he was a
faithfull Helper & belov'd by his Brn, and found a Blessing for his own heart.
On Monday night the 10th of November he was taken with a violent and pain-
full Disorder so that his Disolution was expected before morning, the Vio-
lence of which was however somewhat abated the next Day when he was visited
by By Watson on his return from Huddersfield. He was very chearfull not-
withstanding his great bodily Pain & in a sinnerlike Connexion with the man
of Sorrows, whom he said he longed to see face to face, & beg'd him and the 
Brn to bear him on their hearts, before Him on that account. From his first
becoming sick he always thought he should yet Permission to leave his mor-
tal Tent, and from hence be taken the faithfull one to see, at which he
frequently rejoic'd in his heart, & speaking with a Brother of the great Long-
ing he felt to be at home with his wounded Friend that only matchless


Heart and observing his Wife looked thoughtfull, he said to her when I am
with him I will speak a good Word for you, that he may soon fetch you also
and I'm sure he will not deny me my Request and this he comforted her about
their parting. Soon after the Sacrament, being visited by a Br he express'd
his great Longing for that highest Good, in order to strengthen his heart under
the great bodily pain he felt and declared that the better Death and Passion of
the Lord Jesus was what his heart rely'd upon and his its only Good for time & 
Eternity. Once being visited he express'd his Desire to be buried with his Brn
at Lambs Hill and seemed grieved that on account of his outward Circumstances
he must give up that hope but he was soon comforted upon our assuring
him we wou'd see to it that his desire shou'd be accomplish'd. Jan 21st he had
his past of the holy Sacrament with some other sick for which End he came on Horse-
back to the to the Chapel which was the last time of his being there. On the
Great Sabbath Br Watson carried him the Sacramt, and first related to him what
had had pass'd in the Congn at G.H. on Maunday Thursday and then in a child
like Prayer Prayer beg'd that mouth which spoke his own clean, to speak this
Br who could not enjoy the Application of the bloody Gore from his Back in ye
Aeditarium on account of Sickness clean, and to hasten the ripening of this fruit
of his Deaths Agony & take him home to himself or soon enable him to appear
again among his Brn. Then he sung: What Lord thee so tormented &c. O led him in
thy nail holes see his Pardon & Election free &c. Give him absolution, and a gen-
tle praising Tone, deep Foundation in thy Cross's Stem, and then during an 
inexpressible tender & melting feeling he receiv'd his share of the holy Sacramt
after which he was particularly chearfull and happy and frequently said to his
Wife, now I have got what I wanted, and seem'd highly blessed. That Night
was a very painfull night to him and his Disorder very became again very vio-
lent. On Monday being visited by one of the Brn to whom he again signified his
Longing to be at home which Desire was granted him the next day in the Eve-
ning about 8o'clock after having lain quiet & still from about 4o'clock with-
out speaking, he sweetly fell asleep & grew pale on Jesus arm & Bosom, in ye
65th year of his dying Life, with that Childrens Watch Word; all that
are in the Graves shall hear his voice. Now there's no Soul who doth
not want (ev'n when in her Lords Joy) and doth not quick upon the Grant
fetch her Corpses revrently.


