3. John Thompson Beck, aged 22 years/
Previous to his illness he gave no indication of
spiritual life; for tho' a moral character, his mind was so
fixed on earthly pursuits, that it produced a degree
of hardness of heart and feeling not often found in one
so young. All his affections were enlisted in the acqui
sition of money, after for which he panted with fearful 
eagerness. In this state he continued for a considera
ble time after he was confined to the house, and even
long after it was apparent that he would no get better.
So hard were his feelings that it was painful to visit
him, and so severe was the conflict on his mind when
he saw that death would soon put an end to al his
schemes, that it was truly distressing. The mental
struggle and his fond clinging to life, reeked and tor
tured his soul. Many times have I left the house


with the most painful feelings, and had I not been con
vinced that the Word of reconciliation can soften
the most obdurate heart, I should have desponded. Fre
quent and fervent were my prayers, that the Lord
would open the eyes of this young man. Still no signs
of spiritual life appeared; my conversations with
him, the reading of the scripture, and Hymns, see
med to fall on a rock. At length the grace of God
triumphed, and this unhappy state gave way to sen
timents and feelings of a different kind.
The first symptoms of a sounder state of mind
appeared some months ago. He became an humble
inquirer and listened to the instructions given him
in spiritual things; and the silent tears rolling down
his cheeks, proved that degree of light was spin
ning up in his soul. His friends observed the
change with pleasure; but I thought it was
prudent to take no notice of it, but his alteration
should be diverted from the great object of his
faith and absorbed in himself and his feelings.
He now loved the Lord Jesus; he loved to hear
of His sacrifice and death. His confessions showed
much humility and a hope of happiness groun
ded in the atonement of Christ.
One day, about a fortnight after this change
had taken place, when he was more communi
cative than he had been before, I ventured to
remark, that he had different thoughts and 


feelings now from what he had had a few
weeks before ago, he ascented, expressing his
thankfulness that this was the case. To my
question, "When did you begin to think more
seriously on these things, and what led you to it?" 
he replied; "Do you remember the evening
when you and my uncle were here, and conversing
about the love of Jesus, our Saviour, in giving His
life a ransom for sinners, suffering and dyeing on
the cross for our sins, and of His mercy in saving
all who come to Him in faith? That conversa
tion I could not forget, and for three hours after
I went to bed, I was thinking about it. I prayed
for grace to believe; I prayed for pardon and
I felt a hope that I should not be lost, that Jesus
would save me. Since then my mind has at
times been very comfortable, when I think of
my Saviour and pray to Him."
From that day the operations of the Holy
Spirit on his heart became more evident, and
showed their blessed effects by a complete surrender
of himself to the Lord, and submission to His will;
and by being delivered from the fear of death, and
bearing his severe suffering with exemplary pa
tience, often saying, "It is the Lord's will, let Him
do with me what He pleases." He was mercifully
preserved from any reasons of gloom or darkness
of mind, and to the last confined in a tranquil


and peaceful state. He had buried his hopes on
the Rock of ages, and in a childlike manner fixed
his mind on the suffering of the Lamb of God. In
consequence of this, tho' his frames and feeling varied,
he was kept in perfect peace. Eight weeks ago,
when racked with the most excruciating pains of body,
his soul was graciously supported by inward conso
lations. Peace beamed in his countenance, and
joy glowed in his expressions. "Don't weep for me"
Addressing those present he said, "Don't weep
for me; it will soon be all over; my Saviour is
great; He will not leave me." Subsequently
his pains were partially relieved; when he never
failed to impress the importance of eternal things
on all who visited him.
On Sunday August 13th he was he was asur
ably to his earnest desire, acknowledged a member
of our Church, and commended to the sympathy
and prayer, of the congn. and in the evening
the H. Communion was administered to him
and his parents, in the presence of the other mem
bers of the family and a few friends. Du
ring this solemn act the peace of God was power
fully felt by all present, and he himself testified
by his look, his the heavenly joy that filled his
soul. When the service was over he exclaimed,
"this has been a blessed meeting; nothing but


heaven can exceed this." His bodily sufferings
were forgotten, and the happenings of his soul seemed
almost too great for his weak frame to enterain.
The day after, speaking to one of his sisters of his en
joyment, he was unable to express himself in
language sufficiently strong, saying, "O what a
meeting that was! If you had felt as I did, you
would never forget it."
The last week of his life was one of very severe
suffering, but of inward peace. In the midst of his
sufferings he frequently exclaimed; "Glory, glory be
to God! I shall soon be with Him. I am going fast;
my Saviour will soon come to fetch me home. I 
shall soon be with him in Heaven; there I shall
see Him face to face; I shall be near Him and shall
see the wounds He bore for my sins." At one of my
last visits to him, when he appeared very near
his end, he said, turning his face to me, "You will
soon have to preach my funeral sermon. I wish
the young people may take warning by me, and be
led to give themselves to the Lord."
The Satturday before he died, he was much exhau
sted by pain, and could say very little; but seemed to
derive comfort from the words addressed to him.
When about to leave him he exerted himself to say
something, the substance of which was, that he enjoyd
sweet comfort and peace by in feeling our Saviour's pre
sence, and in meditating on His sufferings & death, ad
ding, "O how I long to go and see The Lamb of God, who
died for me &c." On shaking hands with him he said with 
a smile, "All will be well at last." He departed the following Tuesday.


