Narrative of my pilgrimage
thro' the vale of tears.
They that sow in tears, shall reap in
joy. He that goeth forth and reap weepeth
bearing precious seed, shall doubtless
come again with rejoicing, bringing
his sheaves with him.
All they, who weeping now go forth
And bear the precious seed,
May in our Savior's walk on earth:
Pattern and comfort read.
Samuel Traugott Benade
Having, while I lived on earth, among
other favors and privileges conferred upon
me, thro' the unmerited & undessed grace
of my Lord and Savior been honored with
the appointnient of a Minister of the Gospel
I deem it my bounden duty, once more
thro' this narrative of my earthly pilgri-
mage, to bear testimony to the power and
efficacy of a living faith in a crucified
Redeemer, as experienced by me to the
saving of my Soul and the rejoicing of


of my heart. And Oh! the may this feeble testi-
mony prove an encouragement to my fellow
pilgrims who as yet have not reached their
heavenly home, but are still laboring to enter
into that eternal rest, which God, the faith-
ful covenant keeping God, has prepared for
his people. To All, that shall hear or read this
narrative, I solemnly declare, that my salva-
tion has been from beginning to end, the work
of God, and a succession of miracles, wrought
by the grace of God, for my deliverance as well
as for the promoting of my happiness, & for
the completion of my heavenly calling & election.
Ever since I came to the knowledge of my natu-
ral depravity and sinfulness & knew experi-
mentally the truth of that declaration, "that
those is neither health nor help in ourselves",
scarcely a day has passed, but I had occasion
to weep and to mourn, yea to abhor myself.
and scarcely a day, but I experienced some ma-
nifestation of my Savior's redeeming grace &
power, for my comfort & encouragement 
On revising my own works, it is no compli-
ment to say, that I find no ground for glorying;
but calling to mind the Lord's mercies, I find
abundant cause for everlast'g thanks & prayer.


Hear then, what the Lord has done for my
Soul!
I was born the 28th of October 1746 at
Milkel in Upper Lusatia about to 10 E. miles
from Bautzen the Capital. My Father was
the Minister of the place, and my Mother
Christiana, whose maiden name was Faber
a Minister's daughter. These my dear Pa-
rents were eamestly concerned, to bring
up their Children, of whom they had 6 living,
in the fear and nuture of the Lord, and
to prerserve them from this present evil world
& from the spirit of seduction. Wherefore,
getting acquainted with the Brethren,
who frequently passed thro' the village
in going from Kleinwelke to Uhyst, they
soon embraced that opportunity, to place
us, one after another, in the Seminaries
of the Brn, and thus in my eigth year
I came to live in the Oeconomy at Uhyst.
It was high time for me to be then brought
to a place of safety; for young & little as I
was, the evil propensities of the heart began
already to unfold themselves and would have
even without the aid of seduction, rushed
into activity, if they had not been restrained.


Numberless times in the sequel I have
thanked our Savior with tears, that he in
good time plucked me as a brand from the burn-
ing, and planted me as a tender plant in the
Brs Church, & thereby preserved me from
running headlong into Sin.
Being then under the Brns care, I spent
the remainder of my childhood in a happy
manner receiving early and deep impressions
of Jesus dying love, which excited me to love
him again; tho' my innate self love & self
complacency did not fail to show itself from
time to time.
In 1756 the Boys Oeconomy moved from
Uhyst to Niesky, where my love to our Sa-
vior and fellowship with him was much
further'd by the faithful care of the late Br
Bryant, and by his edifying manner of
treating his Pupils, making it his chief busi-
ness, to lead them into acquaintance with
our Savior. 
While here, one of the most signal visita-
tions of grace was experienced by me on the
13th of November at the meetg for prostration;
my Soul was overcome and melted by an inex-
pressible Sense of our Savior's love wch con-
strained me, to devote myself with soul


and body to Him as his eternal property
This blessed event I have always remember'd
with particular gratitude; and to this very
day the remembrance of it is as fresh and lively
to my mind, as if it had occured but yesterday.
In my 13th year I was placed in the Pae-
dagogium at Hennersdorf, with a view to
prosecute my studies. At that time the vi-
sits and discourses of the late Count Zinzen-
dorf were much blessed to my heart; & I was
deeply affected, when that Servant of God
was called to enter into the joy of his Lord.
After his departure the Paedagogium was trans-
ferred from Hennersdorf to Niesky
As I advanced in years, my natural depra-
vily and siful propensities appeared more
and more, and I should have been carried
away by the torrent of corruption, if through
grace a good foundation had not been laid in
my soul, and if I had not been under the care
of faithful Tutors.
Our Savior continued the good work he had
begun; and when I on the one hand wept &
mourned over myself, he on the other com-
forted and supported me by repeated manifesta-
tions of his love and kindness. I was enabled,
to look by faith to a crucified Redeemer, and


perceived virtue going out of him whenever
I touched him by faith.
In 1759 I was received into the Congn. &
in 1761 admitted to the H. Comn. This divine
repast has been of blessed reality & help to me
in my younger years, as indeed at all times
It always proved a new encouragement to 
me, and revived my faith, love and confidence
in such a manner, that I could run with pa-
tience the race set before me; wch however
would not have been the case, if I had not
been in the habit of looking unto Jesus in
my daily wants and necessities.
On 1764 I came with 6 others to Barby
to finish our Studies in the Seminary.
The celebration of the 13th November, wch
happened the next day after our arrival.
proved a blessed welcome and introduction
to us. My three years stay there was attended
with much benefit and blessing. I proceeded
gradually both in the knowledge of myself
and of my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ,
and learned to apply his precious merit to
the healing of my sin sick nature. It was
there likewise that I received a divine con-
viction and assurance, that my blesed Creator
& Redeemer, had made me, a poor worm, an


object of his divine, infinite and unbounded
love, and that it was the gracious purpose of
his love, to grant me a full portion of that sal-
vation, which he has purchased for all and
this impression has never left me since, proving
a powerful support to me under various trial
and tribulations. 
In my 22. year I was appointed Teacher
in the Paedagogium at Niesky, where I spent
4 years very pleasantly; my labor among
the youths, whom I dearly loved, being easy
and agreeable to me, and my fellowshep with
our Savior childlike and familiar. During
that time I had a very painful fit of the gout,
occasioned by an obstinate cold, wch I had
neglected in the beginning.
Upon this truly delightful period followed
a time of trial and distiess, wch. I brought
upon myself by indulging a mistaken notion
that I should to more useful in our Savior's
cause, if I went out of the common track,
and that my faith would carry me through
all difficulties. When I afterwards discovered
the fallacy of my conceptions, & the true source
from wch they had spiring, the pride of my
heart, and a desire to render myself eminent &
conspicuous; I was exceedingly distresed,


and at time so cast down that it required
strong and repeated consolations, to lift me up
again. Under these circumstance the Holy
Ghost created me with matenal tenderness
and attention, discovering to me on the one
hand more than ever the deep depravity of
my heart as the source of all Evil, and on the
other the unchangeable love & friendships
of my Savior; administering at the same
time the balm of divine consolation to my
broken and contrite heart. It was then that
I made a blessed experience of that precious
truth, that all things must work together
for good to them that love God. For this
trial not only served to confirm my faith,
but also to prepare me for my future calling
to preach the Gospel and to labor in the
Lord's vineyard.
In the year 1772, having been accepted an
Acoluth in the UEC, I was appointed to the
service of the Boys Oeconomy at Fulneck
in Yorkshire. As I had to travel alone, and
part of the way thro' England, unable to 
speak the language, I experienced new proofs
of a gracious providence watching over me
for good, and answering the prayers of a lone-
ly traveller.


The first year of my service at Fulneck
was extremely heavy to me, as I found the
circumstances of the Oeconomy so difficult
and embarrassed, that I could see no remedy
either one way of another. Nevertheless, I put
my trust in the Lord, and firmly believed,
that he in his own good time would bring
things into a better course, wch also came to
pass, when Br. Traneker came as Congn
Helper to Fulneck and undertook the ma-
nagement of the Oeconomy.
In the second year after my arrival in
England, I was appointed to preach occasion-
ally in country places about Fulneck, which
indeed was a difficult task to me, both on
account of my insufficient knowledge of
the language, and on account of my natural
timidity and bashfulness. But He, whose
strength is made perfect in weakness, and
who regards the poor and needy, supported
me in every time of need, and if I felt po-
verty of spirit it was for the blesing of my
own heart.
Amidst all outward difficulties I had a
blessed time at Fulneck. I counted it grace,
to advance in the knowledge of my deep de-
pravity, as it was a powerful inducement


to me, to come with prayer & supplication
to the Savior of Sinners, and to claim the
healing virtue of his precious blood, wch I 
also experienced according to my faith:
At times indeed I felt the power of sin & 
the strength of unbelief to such a degree,
that I was prompted to despair of a com-
pleat deliverance; but even then "he delivered
my soul from death, mine eyes from tears,
and my feet from falling", and granted me 
again a time of refreshing from his presence
Once on such an occasion I was most bless-
edly relieved by a divine assurance, that not
withstanding all my sinfulness I should
yet attain to that supreme happiness, to
love my Savior with all my heart, with all
my strength and with all my undesrstandg
and to be perfectly renewed into his image.
The labor among the Children appeared to
me highly important, & I found much
occasion, to ask for grace and wisdom to
do justice to the several duties incumbent
upon me. I trust my labor has been of be-
nefit to some of them; but at any rate it has
been made a blessing to my own heart.
As I have found, in the course of my mi-
nistry, that some people form to themselves


erroneous ideas of the way and manner, in
which our Savior manifests himself to the
soul, and are apt to look for some extraordi-
nary & striking event. I will here mention
some instances, among many, of his gracious
manifestations experienced by me in the com-
moon course of things.
Once being in violent pain, wch for 3 days
& nights had continued without any intermis-
sion; I began with a murmuring spirit, to
reflect on the goodness of God, that he would
leave his creatures in pain, the he could so
easily relieve them. But I was soon ashamed
of this ungrateful thought, and led to consider
the way of divine, wch are so conpicuous
even in our afflictions, but most of all that
manifestation of his unspeakable love, that
He himself became a man of sorrows and
acquainted with griefs, bearing our griefs and
carrying our sorrows, wch consideration so
over came and melted my heart, that I for the
present forgot my pains, and afterwards could
endure them patiently.
Another time being at Scarboro' on a high
rock close to the sea, on wch the castle stands,
from whence there is an extensive view of
the sea, the town below and the adjacent country


the ships below appearing as small as
cockle shells and the men like crawling
insects my mind was uncommonly struck,
with the sublime and awful scene, and im-
pressed with an overpowering Sense of the
immensity of that universe, of wch the earth
with all its water wide and deep, and with
all its stupendous mountains, is but a speck,
a mere atom. How great then, thought I,
how immensely great must He be, who
has called the whole creation into existence,
and who upholds all things by the word of
his power. And do you really believe, said I
to myself, that this great Builder of the Uni-
verse: "who dwelleth on high, & humbleth
himself, to behold the things, that are in
the
heaven and in earth", should have appeared
in the world in the form of a Servant, & died
on the cross, that he might redeem fallen man,
and raise him to glory!? Reason answered
no it is far too much to be believed: it is im-
possible; but my heart, with a clear wit-
ness of the Spirit within, and melting under
a sense of the love of God, said, yes, I must
believe it from what I have experienced,
lost and undone should I be, if it were not so
but in my great Creator I have found my


Savior and Redeemer, who has delivered my
Soul from the pit of corruption, and is become
to me a never failing source of comfort, peace
and joy. Thus a grand view of nature proved
the occasion of an animating manifestation of
of divine love.
Another instance is this. For a consider-
able time my heart had been as cold as ice, and
dead as a stone, altho' I was not particularly
by tempitations, or the workings of my corrupt
nature, and tho' I was well convinced, that this
was a lamentable state, I had neither power
nor inclination to pray for a change, & for
a return of my former blessed & tender feeling.
In this state I took a solitary walk into a
wood, and laid myself, dead & cold as I was
at the feet of my Savior and cried: "Lord,
have mercy upon me." It was not long before
such a transition took place, as if I had been
translated from darkness into light, & from
death into life, God revealed himself to me
in his unspeakable love. And O! how often
has he by an unexpected touch, without any
particular occasion, melted my heart, how
often has he drawn me with chords of love.
when I was least aware of it, yea, how often
has he laid his hand upon me, when I was


on the point of deviating from the right
path and going astray, and if at any time.
my frail nature had swerved beyond the
proper bounds, he soon created in me a god-
ly sorrow on account of it, and then again
filled my heart with peace and comfort.
During my stay at Fulneck I experienced
a particular prresenation of my life. Being
one Sunday sent to Baildon to preach, I
took a short road, where I had to cross a small
river, wch, in dry weather is fordable on step-
ping stones, but was now so swelled by the rain
that it could only be crossed over in a boat.
The ferryman having gone to Church, a
stout looking boy offered to ferry me over &
we set off, but when we had got into the
middle of the stream, he found it so rapid
that he lost the command of the boat, & was
obliged to let it go down with the current,
which carried us into a mill race, & brought
us to the very edge of the mill dam, from
which the superfluous water was precipitatg
itself into a bed of stones. We now expected
to go down the fall and to be dashed among
the stones wch had happened to others in this
place, who lost their lives, and indeed the
people came running from the mill & the


adjacent houses, to see what would be come
of us. But when we came to the edge of the
fall, the boat instead of going down with
the torrent, gliding gently along close to the
edge, safely passed the waterfall, two young
men from the mill then got into the boat,
and ferried me safe over the river. Having
thus received, as it were, my life anew out
of the hand of God, I dedicated it anew to
him, to spend it in his service & to his glory.
In the year 1770 I was called to Dublin,
these to have the care of the single Brn and
Boys, including the Children, as also to
assist in preaching. Previous to my setting
out I was ordained a Deacon of the Brns
Church by Br. Johannes de Watteville then
on a visit at Fulneck.
During my 5 years service in that Congn,
I experienced much patience, long-suffering
& forbearance, but also much grace & favor
from my bountiful Lord. Many temptations
indeed from the side of an evil world presented
themselves to my view & I had no power
in myself to resist, but rather found my
treacherous heart but too ready and prone
to engage in unprofitable things; but I cried
to the Lord in my distress, & he heard my cry


and delivered me in every time of need,
As the Congn. at that time was desirous, that
a Boys day school should be instituted under
the Brns direction and management, I was
glad of being servicable in establishing and
promoting said institution, wch indeed in
the beginning afforded but an unpromising as-
pect, but in process of time began to prosper
beyond our expectation and was attended with
the Lord's blessing.
In August 1783, that is, 11 years after my
arrival in England, I received Call, to be
one of the Writers to the U.E.C., wch I accepted
from the conviction, that it came from the
Lord. But it lasted till February following,
before I could set out on my passage to Ger-
many. Several occurrences render'd this jour-
ney very remarkable. First I lost all my
goods, when the Ship, in which I was send-
ing them from Dublin to London, was wrecked
on the Welsh Coast, wch loss however did not
affect me much as my immediate wants
were relieved by the Brn & Srs in Dublin
according to their wonted liberality. The
next difficulty arose from the hard winter
then prevailing. The landing in Holland
had been render'd very difficult & expensive


by the ice living the coast, and requiring
ice boats to land the passengers, it was but
just cleared of the ice when I had to go over.
The ice having been stopped both in the
Rhine and in the Elbe, dreadful inunda-
tions had ensued, wch rendered the roads im-
passable, and when I left Zeist it was with
the first post waggon that could travel, &
still in several places the road was intersected
by the water. Thus I saw a hand of provi-
dence in it, that my setting out from Dublin
had been so long delayed. But when I had
reached the boarders of Germany, the winter
set in again, it snowed day and night and
the roads were rendered nearly impracticable.
One night we actually stuck fast in the snow
and we could not have been extricated, if there
had not been another carriage in company,
whose horses joined to ours rescued us from our
disagreable situation. In short, I had so
much to suffer from cold, sickness and fatigue
that when at last I reached Barby in the
beginning of April, my heart was full of
thanks and praises for my presentation, and
I found my faith and confidence in divine,
providence much strengthened, and indeed
it was a wonder to me, that I had been kept 
safe and sound.


In August 1784 I was married to my late
wife Johanna Eleanora Gaertinor, & in Septr
moved with the U.E.C. to Herrnhut. Here in
consequence of the hardships I had suffered on
my journey from Holland, as before described
I had to indure a severe illness, and was brought
nigh unto death, but it proved a salutary effort
of nature, under the divine blesing, to bring
about a better and more durable state of health
than I had enjoyed before. I shall never
forget, what comfort and encouragement
I received during this illness when once in
a sleepless night, my mind laboring under
great distress, the watchman passing under
my window, began to sing with a charming
voice:. Herr Jesu, unser Flehen etc.
Hear our prayer, gracious Savior Jesus,
Friend of Soul so dearly bought!
Let thy grace prevail and bless us,
Far beyond our feeble thought!
Lead us ever with thy favor
That we may in times succeeding
See from grace to grace proceeding.
My appointment as Writer to the U.E.C.
was exceedingly pleasant to me, tho' very
laborious, and I was sorry to be soon called
to another station. For in the year following


I was appointed Minister of the Congn
at Neusalz, and having been ordained a
Presbyter by Br Spangenberg, I arrived there
with my wife, who was then pregnant, the
23d of March, after a difficult and hazardous
journey, the snow being uncommonly deep.
The state of the Congn whom we came to
serve, was such, that we might have been
discouraged from undertaking the office
if our Lord had not supported us with the
believing hope, that he would be with us,
& bless our service which hope was in the
sequel realised beyond our expectation.
In 1785 the Lord blessed us with the birth
of a Son, whom we dedicated unto Him
as his blood bought property.
But now began a scene of domestic distress,
wch under a various changes & vicissitudes,
lasted till the happy departure of my be-
loved wife, who during a period of 6 years
had to endure one sickness after another,
& even in the intervals did not enjoy any
comfortable state of health. The early de-
parture of our little Son who for half a
year labored under a gradual decline, con-
tributed much to the injury of her frame,
as she took it much to heart.


During this period I was often harrassed
by such a variety and multiplicity of distresses
and perplexiting circumstances, that I should
have been quite unfit for the duties of my office
and the service of the Congn, if our Savior
had not supported me in an extraordinary
manner, next to wch the love and kindness
we experienced from our Brn & Srs was also
a great help and benefit to us.
In the beginning of 1789 we were called
upon to officiate during the Synod at Gna
denfrey, while both the Congn Helper & the
Minister of that Congn were attending the
Synod. My dear wife was but just recovering
from a severe illness, and still so weak, that
she could not cross the room without help
nevertheless we accepted the call in reliance
upon our Savior's support, who graciously
answered our prayers on that occasion.
Our short residence at Gnadenfrey was in-
deed attended with much labor and fatigue,
but we also experienced much of our Savior's
help in time of need, & were strengthened by
the mutual support of our fellow labourers
and the general love of the Brn & Srs, so that
our hearts overflowed with thanks and praises 
when in the spring 1790 we set out for England,


having been appointed by the Synod La
borers of the London Congn.
We arrived in London in June following
Here we had again to pass thro' a variety of
new & heavy trials; the increasing sickliness
of my wife soon disabled her from attending
her office, and terminated at last in a confirmed
decline. This and other distresses had such
an effect upon my whole frame, that I
felt sick and was again brought nigh unto
death. The Lord however blessed the means
used for my recovery, and strengthened me
anew, to administer my last help to my dear
wife now hastening to her dissolution, and
to wait upon her, till she was permitted to
enter into her eternal rest.
At the close of this period taking a retrospect-
ing view of the various afflicting dispensations
I had passed thro', and which at times seemed
to bear to hard upon me, I could thank our
Savior with heartfelt gratitude for all the de-
monstrations of his love and goodness, and for
causing all things to work together for my good
I am fully convinced from my own experience
that He doth all things well, that all his chast-
enings on love, and that our short affliction
wch is but for a moment, worketh a far more


exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while
we look not at the things wch are seen, but at
the things wch are not seen.
After the happy departure of my late Wife
in January 1792 I spent one year as a Wi-
dower, and our Savior granted me a time of
refreshing rest. In September the same year
I received an appointment, to serve the Congn
at Bedford, but circumstances delayed my
going thither till the year following.
On the 2d. April 1793 I was married to the
S. Sr Jane Dodgson, and soon after we went
to Bedford.
Our stay there was upon the whole very
agreeable, and we richly enjoyed the blessing
of God, and the love and confidence of our Brn
& Srs. We had indeed also our share of diffi-
culties, but the Lord helped us thro' them all.
When we found ourselves quite comfortably
settled, we received a Call to Dublin, and ar-
rived there in December 1794.
As we both had served this Congn before,
tho' in different capacities, & pretty well
knew beforehand, what difficulties awaited
us to encounter, we felt rather heavy on that
account, but nevertheless, trusted in the
Lord, that he would continue to support us,


as he had done hitherto. Nor was our confi-
dence put to shame, and amidst our own
infirmities, and various trials we had to pass
thro' we enjoyed much grace and blessing
from our Savior, and his gracious support
in every time of need.
One of the heaviest trials, which occurred
during this period, was that dreadful re-
bellion, wch while it lasted, raged with sa-
vage fury, and more than once threatened
destruction to the City of Dublin. It was well
for us, not to know the full extent of the
dangers we were surrounded with tho' we
were also frequently alarmed by false reports
and needless apprehensions. Frequently the
state of things was such, that our lives seem'd
to hang by a slender thread, and on several
occasions it was a serious question, we had
to put to ourselves, whether we were duly
prepared to meet the impending fate, tho'
we should be carried off by a sudden stroke.
Our hope was in the Lord, who heard our
humble prayers and supplications for the
good of the country, and granted a happy
issue to that awful contest wch, if it had
terminated in the intended revolution & sub-
version of the existing Government, would


would have occasioned scenes of unparalled
cruelty, massacre and devastation. 
We were thankful to the Lord, that we not
could
only possess our own Souls in patience, but also
administer comfort and encouragement to others.
During that time I also experienced a remark-
able preservation from bodily harm, having
my legs nearly crushed by a brewer's dray drive-
ing against a jaunting car, in wch I was sitting
sideways. The injury I received was however
such, that for a considerable time I was pre-
vented officiating in the Church. But far
more important was the preservation of my
Soul in the midst of so many temptations
abounding in such a large City, wch I could
by no means overcome by my own strength,
but solely by looking unto Jesus the Author
& Finisher of my faith.
And let me here observe again, that for
the most part of my life scarcely a day has
passed, when I had not some humbling
sense & symptom of the vileness & depravity
of my nature, which caused me to mourn &
to seek help and comfort in our Savior, the
blessed consequence of wch was, that I also ex-
perienced the comforts of his pardoning & reviving


grace. This constant need of a Savior, and
the never failing help and refuge I found
in Him, proved to me the reality of the
Gospel, and my sure interest in Christ's re-
demption. And as my experience tallied with
the written word of God, it confirmed my high
regard and veneration for the sacred oracles:
or else that stupendous & all conception far
surpassing fact: God was manifest in the
flesh, and suffer'd blood and died for Sinners,
would have utterly confounded my reason
& understanding and staggered all belief.
When the Synod of 1801 had come to a close,
and I had received no intimation of an intended
change, I concluded, that I should continue
in the service of the Dublin Congn & therefore
devoted myself anew to the Lord for that pur-
pose. But while I was sitting in my room
in this happy fame of mind, the postman
brought a letter, containg our appointment
to the service of Fulneck Congn. This indeed
came very unexpected, and was not altogether
agreeable to our wishes, as we were much
attached to the Dublin Congn, with whom we
had shared a great deal of joy, as well as of
distress and trouble, particularly during the


late rebellion. But having devoted ourselves
unreservedly to the Lord's service, & promised
obedience to his will and guidance, we could
do no other than accept of that new appointment.
We arrived at Fulneck Nov. 10. 1801, and on
the 13th following, on wch day 65 years ago
I had experienced the first real and abiding
manifestation of Jesus love and grace, I was
according to a Synodal resolution, confirmed
by the Lord, consecrated a Bishop of the Brns
Church by the Brn Traneker and Moore, on
wch occasion I was so overpowerd by the grace
of God, that willth purpose of heart, and without
any reserve whatever, I surrender'd myself anew
to my Lord & Savior and from a pure motive
of love and gratitude for his lovingkindness
and goodness towards me, dedicated my fu-
ture services to Him in that house & family
of his own to which He had graciously led
me in my early youth.
On this occasion it will not be improper
for me, to state my views respectg the Brn
Congn, to wch I have the favor to belong.
The Church of Christ here on earth appears
to me like a large and fruitful gardens, con-
sisting of a number of compartments or divisions


differing indeed both in arrangement & cul-
ture, but all under the care and managment
of one & the same Gardener; who appoints
Laborers for each division of his garden &
vineyard, instructing them in the proper mode
of cultivating that part which is exclusively
committed to them. Now it is well known,
that different plants require both a different
treatment and a different soil, & would not e-
qually prosper in a soil less congenial to their
texture and nature. So it is with the different
denominations in the Christian Church. All
of them, that confess Jesus Christ to be their
Lord and Master, and walk in the way of his
precepts and commandments deriving from
him wisdom, righteousness, sanctification and
redemption, and keeping the word of his pa-
tience, belong to the Lord's vineyard, & occupy
different compartments where they receive a
different treatment under their peculiar
form and constitution; there they find them-
selves at home and thrive best. Thus there
are many excellent Children of God, whom our
constitution, discipline and outward form
would not suit, and who would not like to
be confined within our fold. And thus on the


other hand those whom our Savior has
called to the Brns Church, & who are genuine
members of the same, could not foot themselves
at home in any other denomination, nor be
so much further'd in their course any where else.
This at least is my case, conviction and ex-
perience, and the Brns Church has proved
to me the most congenial soil for growing in
the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
It is in this fold, that I have been screened and
secured from the deleterious influence of se-
duction, so common among young people when
left to themselves; it is there that I received
a careful education, combining the know- 
ledge of spiritual things with useful learning
of things pertaining to this life: it is there that
by serving in a variety of situations & passing
thro' various trials, peculiar to our connection
with one another, I was qualified both to feed
the sheep of Christ, and from my own expe-
rience to lead them deeper into a proper ap-
plication of the word of life & the merits of our
Lord Jesus Christ; it is there, that the gifts &
talents allotted to me, can be more usefully em-
ployed than any where else, and finally it is
there, that my heavenly race meets with the
least obstruction & with the best encouragement.


If therefore others have the same special Call,
let them obey it, and they will find themselves
in the right place, they will thrive & prosper
and they will clearly see from their blessed
experience, that He, who has called them, is
faithful to perform the purposes of their callg
and election. And Oh! that our young people,
who are born and bred in our Congn, and thus
have a clear Call to it, might duly reflect on
our Savior's views with them in regard to
their course thro' life and be duly concerned
to inherit the blessing of their Parents & An-
cestors. And Oh! may the Brns people never
forget, that the Lord has formed them for him-
self, to be his witnesses, to confess him among
men as the only Savior of perishing Sinners,
to be living monuments of his redeemg grace
and power, and persevere in their endeavors
for the conversion of heathen nations; and
Oh! may they, walking in the fear of the Lord,
and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost be mul-
tiplied! Amen.
But to resume my Narrative. When I en-
tered upon the service of Fulneck Congn, I was
well aware of the multiplicity of labor, cares
and difficulties belonging to it, nor could I think
myself sufficient for that station, but nevertheless


I submitted to every part of my calling in
reliance upon our Saviors gracious support
wch. I also richly experienced under a variety of 
heavy circumstances. In the beginning it was
a great help to me, that our late dear Brother
Traneker still continued for some time to act
as Congn. Helper and to take some share in
the labor, but after his departure I had to en-
ter fully upon the exercise of all my functions
as Congn. Helper Minister & Inspector of the
Schools.
Every period of the Brns. Church has been
attended with its own peculiar difficulties
but what renders the office of a Laborer in
such a situation now a days more particu-
larly embarrassing, is the want of proper
persons for managing the Concerns of a Place
Congn., and for serving our Boarding Schools
as Teachers or Assistants, or in any other ca-
pacity. If therefore a vacancy happens, it is
no easy matter to fill it up again with a
proper qualified person. At one time in par-
ticular this circumstance caused me much dis-
tress of mind, and I cried day and night to the
to the Lord for help, till it came from quar-
ter, from when I had least expected it. On the
other hand I found abundant cause to rejoice,


over the blessing, which the Lord had laid
upon the Schools. For when I first came to
Fulneck in the year 1772, as first Teacher of
the Boys Oeconomy, consisting at that time
of about I Boys, I found it in such needy
circumstances, and so low in the estimation
of others, that it required much patience to
endure it, and much faith to hope for better
times. And on my return in the year 1801
I found a School of about 70 Boys settled
in a new house built for the purpose, and
another of upwards of 50 Girls occuping the
lower apartments under the Chapel, placed
under our care in easy circumstances This
was to me a most striking proof, that the
Lord sees our tears, hears our prayers, & in
due time grants our petitions, yet doth ex-
ceeding abundantly above all that we can ask
or think, for his own name's sake. My only
wish and prayer was, that we might be able,
to do justice to our important calling. And
in this respect, as all others, I was heartily
thankful to our Saviors and admired his
gracious leading, that in my dear wife he-
had given me a partner, well qualified for
our station and respective employments
In the year 1810 I was brought very low and


and much reduced by a slow nervous fever
wch almost incapacitated me for any time
but still I was not entirely laid up, & could
transact the most urgent matters.
Our service in Fulneck, arduous & laborious
at best, on account of the multiplicity of our
incumbencies, was in the 2 last years rendered
still more so by the misfortunes, occasioned by
the spirit of speculation in trade, wch was
then prevailing throughout the mercantile
community and was the cause of innume-
table ruinous failures. The reproach, which
then, tho' undeservedly; fall upon the Congn
and its Servants, and other highly distressing
circumstances bore heavy upon our minds
but at the same time we were so strengthen'd
by the Lord, and supported by his powerful
aid, that we were able to bear up under
all trials and difficulties
Upon the whole, when we survey our 11
years residence and labor in Fulneck, our
hearts are filled with gratitude for the in-
numerable proofs of the unchangeable love.
grace and mercy of our Lord and Master, ex-
perienced both in our private course, & in
our official labors. Nor is it the least of his
favors, that he counted us worthy, to serve


not only the Fulneck Congn, but also its
dependencies, the rest of our Congns in York-
shire, and their numerous Schools.
In the year 17811 we received our Call to Ire-
land, where, besides our, joint offices, I was
to succeed our late Br. Hartley in that of
Prov.e Helper of Ireland, & Minister of Grace-
hill; but it lasted till October 1812, before
we could set out for our new post where we
arrived on the 14th of that month.
In this new situation I feel again every day
anew the absolute necessity, to look to Jesus
the Author and Finisher of my faith, that I may
not only be preserved from sin and the evils of
a corrupt nature, but also grow up in his like-
ness in all things. along with an humbling
sense of the entire depravity of soul & body,
and the constant need of a Physician, & under
a deep conviction, that I am not worthy of
the least of all his mercies, I am favored with
a high conception of my heavenly calling
and election of grace, and of the infinite worth
of that crown of life, which the Lord, the
righteous Judge, shall give unto all them
that love his appearing. But oh!, how often
do I feel an unaccountable listlessness, and
must blame myself for culpable tardiness


in proving that holiness without which
no man shall see the Lord. How often do I
feel irksome, when he applies the refiner's
fire and the fuller's soap to the purifying of
my sinful nature. tho' I ought to be thank
ful, that he is so unremittingly engaged with
my poor Soul, and so constantly intent upon
carrying on the good work he has begun
Oh that I could now spend the remainder of
my pilgrimage to the joy and honor of Him
who has redeemed me from all iniquity and
given me power to become a Child of God
and an heir of eternal bliss and glory.
What inmumerable escapes & preservations
of my soul have I experienced in the course
of my pilgrimage, little known to them
who were conversant with me & could not
observe the various temptations, besetting
me from within and from without, and
the trials arising as much from my natural
disposition, as from unpleasant occurences.
Tho' I am truly thankful for that share
& confidence, which I have enjoyed in every
Congn whom I had the favor to serve, and
that I could live in peace & harmony with
my fellow laborors. tho' I was perfectly sa-
tisfied with my situation in life and tem-


poral circumstances, yea could truly say, even
in this respect: "my lot has fallen to me in a
pleasant place, and I have got a goodly heritage,"
tho' in general I have enjoyed a good state of
health, and was possessed of a variety of tem--
poral blessings, suited to my taste and natural
disposition, taking particular delight in works
of art, and the beauties of nature: yet, with
all these advantages, the world would have
been to me a true vale of tears, and much
mourning and weeping has attended me on
my pilgrimage. But I have also derived
constant consolation from the suffering life
of my dear Redeemer; And O! how blessed
was it for me, that by the afflictions of this
life I was continually excited, to look forward
to the end of my earthly warfare & pilgrimage,
and to the blessed moment, when I shall
be permitted, to enter into the joy of my Lord,
and to rest from all my labors.
It behoves me to mention in this place,
that besides the reading of the holy Scriptures
which afforded a rich and delightful pasture
to my mind, I was also much benefited by
many hymns in our Collection, especially such
as tallied with the experience & feelings of my
own heart; and many sleepless hours in the


night have I spent agreeably in repeating
or rehearsing such as were familiar to in
recollection and suitable to my circumstances.
And how shall I now O Lord thou God
of my salvation, express unto Thee my infi-
nite obligations whose mercy towards me
has been new every morning. Thou didid sepa-
rate me from my mother's womb, and set thy
love upon me, before ever I had heard thy name
and before I could make the least returns
Thro' thy kind providence I had both in me
respected Parents and in my 6 Teachers faithful
guides of my youth, and in my early days
was favored to hear the joyful sound of the
gospel, and to have a crucified Savior set be- 
fore the eyes of my poor and contrite spirit
Altho' thro' thy tender care and divine power
I was preserved from the snares of an evil world,
from the wiles of Satan, and from the de-
structive power of Sin; yet thro' the teaching
of thy holySpirit I was thoroughly convinced
both of the total corruption of my nature and
its helpless state, and of the necessity to flee
for refuge and to lay hold of the hope that is
set before us. How can I thank Thee sufficiently
for all the clear evidences & blessed manifestations
of thy love and goodness towards me, & of the


healing, sanctifying and quickening virtue
of thy precious blood, without wch I must
have perished in the leprosy of sin. What
a poor unhappy mortal should I have been
continually harrassed and tormented with
pride, ambition, envy and jealousy, and
destroying myself in the service of Sin, if
I had not found in Thee deliverance, peace
of mind and rest of soul. Thro' thy grace
it was my happy lot, to live content under
all the various dispensations of thy kind
providence, and in every place of my
earthly residence. Thou hast taken great
pains to train my me for thy service, and
to qualify me for every situation in thy
house, to wch I was appointed, but ah!
how short did I fall of that Zeal & activity,
wch I ought to have shown in the perform-
ance of my duties! To glorify Thee with all
the faculties and abilities of spirit, soul and
body, because they were bought with a price,
and preserved from the destructive power of
sin, should have been my constant study
by day and night. Thy rich forgeveness
must cover all my short comings, neglects
& omissions. And O how readily hast Thou
pardoned thy unprofitable Servant on all


occasions, meeting me half way falling about
my neck and kissing me, even before I could
make my humble confession with tears of re-
pentance and contrtion. However unde-
serving I may be, still I can rest upon that
gracious promise of thine:" where I am there
shall also my Servant be!" And O! how do I
rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory
at the enchanting prospect before me, to
enter once into thy blissful presence, to be 
for ever at home with thee, to behold this glo-
rious countenance, to come unto mount Sion
and to the City of the living God, the heavenly
Jerusalem, to an inumerable company of
Angels, to the general Assembly & Church of
the firsborn wch are written in heaven & to 
God the Judge of all
Till then I will lean on Thee, my Beloved
while walking thro' the wildemess, and live
by the faith of the Son of God, who has loved
me and given himself for me. Amen.
Thus far written in the year 1814
S.J. Benade
Note. The following occurrence has been
omitted in the foregoing Narrative, wch how-
ever belongs to the remarkable incidents of my


Life.-- In the year 1803 two Tahitian youths,
Meydow and Olai, had been by the London
Miss.g Society committed to the care of Br Wm
Okely then Minister of our Congn at Mirfield,
for their instruction both in the English lan-
guage & in the Christian doctrine. Their
moral conduct had been from the beginning
correct and exemplary, and latterly they gave
clear evidences of religious impressions & of a
work of grace in their hearts. Having ex-
pressed a desire after baptism, and being
instructed in the spiritual character of this
holy ordinance, it was administered to them
by our Lords approbation, in a solemn assembly
in the Chapel, Meydow receiving the name
of Joseph and Olai that of Christian; after
wch within a short period they both fell asleep
in Jesus, Joseph first, and his brother Christian
not many days after.
To myself it was not only a pleasant duty,
but also a great favor, to be thus made instru-
mental in administering holy baptisin to
those two Tahitian Youths and to perform
the office of a Heathen Messenger in Christian
country.


October 28th 1817
 Seventy one years have now passed away since
I was born, and fifty years, since I entered into
the service of the B rethren's Unity for which
had been destined and educated from my
early youth. How precious are thy thoughts
unto me, O God! how great is the Sum of them'
If I could count them, they are more in num
ber than the sand. Bless the Lord, O my Soul
and all that is within, bless his holy Name!
From all eternity with love--  unchangeable
Thou hast me view'd--Ere knew this beating
heart to move-- Thy tender mercres me pur-
sued!. Ever may they with me abide-- And
close me in on every side!'
Deeply bowed in the dust, yea prostrate at
thy feet, I adore Thee O Lord, and with a
flood of tears, I render unto Thee my un-
feigned thanks and praises for inumerable
mercies of all kinds, so undesenvedly be-
stowed upon me during so long a period,
while passing thro' this vale of tears, under
so many changes and vicissitudes, trials and
tribulations. I can bear abundant testimony
from my own experience, that Thou art
the Lord merciful and gracious long -suffer


ing, and abundant in goodness and truth.
forgiving iniquity, transgression and sin.
and that thy mercy is new every morning.
In my forlorn condition. Those Lord, didst
me receive--Thou savedst from perdition-
My soul, and badst me live. --With inward
Spirits ardor --I thank Thee for thy grace,
Thyself this heavenly fervor-- Of love to
Thee increase. Oh! that now the few re-
maining days of my pilgrimage may be
consecrated to thy service and to thy glory.
But oh, how do I blush with shame-
and confusion of face, when I reflect, how
often I still grieve Thee by unbelief, cold-
ness of heart, want of love, carnal propen-
sities, indolence in thy service, and various
other things, when I reflect, how short
I fall of those virtues and excellencies, wch
adorn the Christian character, and wch are
exhibited to us in thy walk and conversa-
tion, in thy whole life here on earth. How
little do I yet discover of that meekness &
lowliness of heart, wch we are to learn of
Thee, and of that purrity and holiness, with
out wch no man shall see the Lord. There
are indeed hours of grace, when I am par-


ticularly led to meditate, both upon that
wonderful act of thy bleeding & dying love
when Thou gavest thyself for my salvation
and redemption, and upon that tender un-
wearied care Thou hast taken of me from
my tender infancy until now, bearing, for
giving, comforting, upholding, and sup-
plying my wants in every time of need, and
when the flame of love kindled in my heart
burns bright and strong; but ah! how soon
is it again like smoking flax, & my faith
and confidence like a bruised reed. How
soon might the smoking flax be quenched
and the bruised reed be broken, if thy mercy
did not sustain me from day to day.
And what shall I say respecting my poor
services:? They are not performed with that
Goal and fervency of spirit, wch ought to
activate me, whether I declare the counsel
of God for our salvation in public, of address
either the Congn. collectively of any Choir
separately, or when I administer the holy
Sacraments, or am engaged in any other
official duties. How often do I act more
from a sense of duty than from an impulse
of love. I claim no reward, but I humbly


implore thy forbearance, patience & pardon
But O my Savior, what an arduous sta-
tion hast thou called me to occupy in this
country. The destitute of the necessary
means, I am required to afford help & relief
in different quarters and on various ocea-
sions, where it is called for. Is it a wonder
that my faith at any time should seem
to fail, and my courage to sink! But
no. I will not cast away my confidence,
and why should I, after so many striking
proofs and instances of thy gracious help
& support in difficult & trying circumstances,
where human help was in vain, doubt of
thy further help? I am thy Servant.,it is
thy cause I wish to serve: it is thy will
I should have my station here, & it was
in obedience to thy call, that I came, not
knowing what awaited me.
Me thy all- seeing eye
Hath kept with watchful care,
Thy great compassion never fail'd,
Those heardst my needy pray'r-
This makes me firmly trust,
Thou'lt lead me farther still-
And safely guide throughout the way,
That leads to Sion's hill


October 28th 1818 
What shall I say of the year that is now
gone by. it was indeed a period of many se-
vere trials of various kinds, but the greatest
of all was, that on the 6th of August it pleased
the Lord, to take home to himself my beloved
partner and faithful helpmate, with whom
I had lived in the married state 25 years, &
who not only was a pleasant companion
to me but also an experienced Assistant in
the labor, having already previous to our
marriage served a number of years as a faith
full handmaid of the Lord among the Girls
and single Sister. Thus I was now the 2d
time placed in the state of a Widower at
a time of life, when such an agreeable com-
panion and faithful helpmnate is doubly
valuable. My desire was now more than
ever fixed upon things above, & upon being
at home with the Lord.
I had also some expectation at the close
of the Syned held this year at Herrnhut,
that I should be permitted to lay down my
offices and enjoy some rest, but was disap-
pointed and rather found, that by the new


regulations agreed upon I should have some-
additional duties to perform. Nothing there-
fore remains to me but to commit myself
anew to the hands of my faithful Lord and
Savior, relying on his gracious promise
And even to Your old age I am He, and even
to fear faits will I carry you; I have made
and I will bear; even I will carry & deliver
you. Isa. 46.4. Amen be it so.
The year 1823 was on account of the
party spirit prevailing in the Cangn and
anxious circumstances connected with it
a trying period to me, and finding, that
by gouty and rheumatic affections my bodily
strength was much impaired, and that both
body and mind were no longer equal to the
performance of my official duties, I followed
my conviction, that after a service of 56
years I might retire from my former acti-
vity to a more easy situation, and therefore
resigned all my offices except that of Minister.
Thus I could begin the year 1824 with
a chearing prospect of rest and peace from
within and without, nor was I disappointed
in my expectation. I really anticipated the
fulfillment of the prophecy: my people


shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, in
sure dwellings, and in quiet resting placed
All my mourning was turned into joy, and
I could thank the Lord even for the afflictions
I had to pass thro', as they afforded in the
end new evidences of his unchangeable love
and faithfulness. My great concem and my
earnest prayer and supplication now is, that
the Spirit of God may prepare me for meeting
of Savior with joy, and make me meet
for an inheritance among the. Saints in light,
is to my present situation I can truly
testify with the Psalmist; my lines are
fallen unto me in pleasant places, yea'
I have a goodly heritage." Ps 16. 6
July 8th 1827 I ordained Br. Cent Henry
Rudolph, then Minister of Dublin Congn.
a Presbyter of the Brns Church, and this
was the last transaction of my ministe-
rial office.
At the close of this Narrative I feel my
self both in dury and in gratitude bound
to express my thanks & praise to God, that
by his kind providence and thro' the gr
acious liberality of our good friend &  her
Factours Mrs. Bates so many improvements




















Subtance of my Prayers in behalf
of the World at large 
O Thou God of Love! Thou Father of
mercies and God of all compassion whose
Love is "immense in height, in depth un
fathomed"; O Lord God, merciful & gracious
long suffering and abundant in goodness
and truth; forgiving iniquity, transgression
and sin, and keeping mercy for thousands.
Look down, I besecch thee, from heaven,
the habitation of thy holiness, upon this
poor sinful wretched world, abounding
in miseries and evils inumerable, & of
every description.
Millions of human beings born unto
trouble as the sparks fly upward, dwelling
in frail mortal bodies, liable to all manner
of pains & diseases and finally consigned
to the dust of the grave; possessing im
mortal souls that never die, but must
continue for ever and ever in a state, either
of unspeakable bliss and glory, or in a state
of unutterable woe & never ending torments.


Millions of human beings are successively,
one generation after another, born into this
evil world, and after a longer or shorter
period of their earthly pilgrimage, called
into another state; from which no one
returns, to bring tidings of their new
scene of existence. Being conceived in
sin and shapen in iniquity, they bring
the seeds of every evil with them, wch
as they grow up, develop themselves, and
bring forth the bitter fruits of sin and un
righteousness. The world, in wch they live,
abounds in tempitations of every kind,
and affords constant food & excitements
to the lust of the eye, and the lust of the
flesh and the pride of life; & evil com
munications corrupt the minds & man
ners of men still more. The God of this
world, whose power, O Lord, Thou well
knowest, rules in the very hearts of men,
and by a thousand delusions leads them
captive at his will, deceiving them by
phantoms of happiness to pursue after
shadows instead of grasping the substance,


Tho' tenants at will, none of them knowing
neither the day nor the hour, when they shall
be called away from all they possess, they make
this world their home, grasping as much of
earthly goods as they can, and never looking out
for a better world & for an over enduring in
heritance, for a building of God, a house
not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
Some destroy themselves by drunkeness or
the indulgence of fleshly lusts; others bury
themselves in the cares of this life; others are
wholly intent upon accumulating riches;
some again, fired by ambition, exert all
their strength in pursing the phantom
of worldly glory; others labor for literary
fame, and deem themselves wise, because
arts and sciences are their pursuit; even
the semblance of religion deceives a mul
titude of nominal professors. Millions are
idolaters, worshiping stock and stone and
the work of man's hands.
Well may the Prophet say: "all we like
sheep have gone astray; every one has turned
to his own way." But Thou, O Lord, knowest
the ways of all the children of men~


Million Thou beholdest living in the gross
est superstitions or & the most abominable ido
latries, or obeying the dictates of the false
Prophet. And O how much even of what
is called the Christian Religion, consists
in outward show and idolatrous worship
of Saints! yea, how many false Teachers
me there in Christendom, enemies of the
cross of Christ and denying the Lord who
bought them!
Such is the world, O Lord, thou knowest
such are the nations that inhabit the
earth, and are ruled by the God of this world
who has barricaded his empire with gates
of brass and bars of iron, surrounding it
with forts and ramparts, wch no human
power can destroy.
Remember, O Lord, I beseech Thee, for
thine own sake, since all the souls of men
are thine, the work of thy hands, that
Thou cam'st from heaven to save the world
to destroy him that has the power of death
even the Devil; and to destroy his works,
that men, being delivered from the hand of
all their enemies might serve thee in rightous


ness and true holiness. It is thy Spirit
alone, that can convinced men of sin and
their sinful and perishing state; it is he
that must breathe upon the dry bones and
quicken them; it is thy voice alone, O Son
of God, that can raise the dead. O do Thou
cause many to hear the loud awakeng call:
"awake for thou that sleepest, and arise from
the dead, and Christ shall give thee light."
Do thou open the eyes of the blind; unstop
the ears of the deaf, and make the lame to 
walk. Let thousands yet experience, that
the word of the Cross is both the wisdom
and the power of God to every one that be
lieveth. Prepare and send forth, many
faithful Servants & powerful witnesses,
to publish peace and salvation to perishing
Sinners. Open doors and a ready entrance
for the promulgation of thy glorious gospel;
And Oh hasten the time, when the fulness
of the Gentiles is to come in and all Israel
shall be saved.
Thy Gospel make more fully known;
Let all the world thy goodness own.
Amen!


Substance of my prayers & intercession
for all the Children of God, belonging
to his Church on earth.
Thy Church, great Savior, bought with blood,
Outcasts of men, but dear to Thee;
Esteems thy Cross a pleasant load.
An easy yoke, thrice happy she,
When bearing thy reproach below,
She still partakes of thy free grace,
which thou so freely dost bestow,
And which afflictions load outweighs.
amidst an innumerable multitude of
Idolaters, Mahometans, Jews and false
Christians, thy all searching eye, O Lord,
beholds a small number of believing Souls,
partly living together in communities,
& partly scattered here and there on the
face of the earth, who were awakened by
the sound of the gospel trumpet, enlight
ened by thy thy Holy Spirit, and upon
thy gracious call returned unto Thee, the
Shepherd and Bishop of their Souls. Being
convinced of sin and their sinful state;
they came unto Thee with weeping & sup
plication, confessing their sins; & imploring


thy pardoning grace and the cleansing
virtue of thy precious blood. They found favor
in thy sight; they received power to become
the Children of God, being born again not
of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible;
they came out from among the children of the
world, forsaking their vain conversation;
they rejoiced in their lot of grace, to be num
bered to the sheep of thy pasture, and to be
under thy faithful care, guidance & protection.
But they are not yet made perfect; they
are engaged in a warfare, still harrassed
by Satan, by sin and the world; passing
thro' a vale of tears, burthened with infir
mities tried in the furnace of affliction by
trials, tribulations and temptations. 
Thou alone, O Lord, art able to uphold
and keep them from falling, to bear them
up under all their distresses and afflictions, 
to strengthen their faith, & finally to pre
sent them faultless before the presence of thy
glory with exceeding joy.
Thou knowest, O Lord, how apt we are
to stray from Thee; how prone to yield to
temptations; how liable to fall from our first


love, to forget our high and heavenly calling,
and by objects of time and sense to be diverted
from the great object of our faith and hope.
O how many have, like Esau, sold their birth
right for a morsel of meat, have again loved
the world, and drawn back unto pordition;
or like the foolish Virgins, contented with
the lamp of profession, have neglected to
have oil in their vessels, that is, grace in
their hearts and life in their Souls!
Do Thou, most gracious Savior, grant
us the grace, to be watchful over the treasure
we possess, that no enemy may rob us of it;
to have always our loins girt about & our
lights burning, like Servants waiting for
the coming of their Lord. O continue to
lead & feed thy Church like a Shepherd;
pour out the Spirit of grace & suppli
cation upon it; let thy Church never
want faithful Ministers, to give every
one their meat in due season; grant them
the needful gifts and graces for the work
of the ministry, for the perfecting of Saints
and for the edifying of the Body of Christ.
May thousands yet be brought the thy


fold, to show forth they praises, as living 
monuments of they redeeming grace & power
Amen!
By Thee protected, gracious Lord
O may we ever live secure;
Led by thy Spirit, grace, and word,
Relying on thy covnant sure;
Thy work O prosper and defend,
We're feeble but confide in thee,
Let thy true foll'wers to the end
Amidst oppression conqu'rors be.
Substance of my prayers & suppli
cations in behalf of the Brns. Church.
Thrice happy Congregation,
For thy predestination
Adore the suffering Lamb;
Who, mov'd by love unbounded,
To purchase thee was wounded,
The cross endured, despis'd the shame
The Brns. Church, O Lord, confesses with
one consent, and with the deepest abase
ment and warmest gratitude, worshiping
& adoring Thee in the dust for thy grace
election, that she is a work of thy own hands


a plant of thy own planting, whereby
Thou wouldst be glorified. Through a
course of one hundred years Thou hast
by inummerble evidences of thy super
intending care and special love & mercy,
realised that gracious saying of thine: "I
the Lord keep my vineyard. I will water
it ever moment, lest any hurt it. I will
keep it night and day."
Thou Lord didst raised the present Brns
Church from the embers as it were, of the
ancient Church of the Brn, a small ser
vant of wch, thro' the wonderful leading
of thy providence, was brought to a place,
where, shelter'd from the storm of persecution
they could under the guidance of thy holy
Spirit form their constitution after the pattern
of their forefathers, and make such rules and
regulations, as were adapted to the times &
existing circumstances, and conducive to their
temporal and spiritual welfare. They laid
a sure foundation by make my the word of the
cross and of thy all atong sacrifice, the sum
& substance of their doctrine, the sole object
of their faith, and the only ground of their hope
& happiness both for time & for eternity.


Thus the Brns Church became a burning
and a shining light to all around them,
a cloud of witnesses to a benighted Christen
dom, at a time, when but a small member
of Ministers were found, zealous and bold
enough, to declare the truth as it is in
Christ Jesus, and to preach the gospel of our
salvation in its purity, with the demon
stration of the Spirit and of power. Thou
didst excite in their hearts a strong impulse
and irresistible desire, to carry the glad
tidings of salvation to the Heathen, opening
a door for them, wch no man has been able
to shut. Every Congn. now settled in Christi
an countries, every Society formed & cared
for by the Brethren, & every Missionary
Settlement among the Heathen, is a plant
of thy own planting, & a monument of
thy wisdom and power. O what wonders
of love, grace and goodness, what a multi-
tude of thy loving kindnesses, present them
selves to our view, when we call to mind
thy gracious dealings, and the mighty acts,
which Thou hast performed in our behalf
in the course of a hundred years.


Could we avale thee worthily
For thy unbounded grace
display'd in various ways to us.
Our lauds would never cease,
No one indeed can say, O Lord, that thy labor
has been in vain, that thy purposes have been
frustrated, and that Thou hast gathered no
fruit from this part of thy Vineyard. Thou
sands of redeemed Souls from among Christ
tians & Heathens have been gained for by Thee
thro' the testimony of Witnesses, that went
forth from the Brns people. Thousands who
could find no rest for the sole of their foot in an
evil world, found a place of refuge in this City
of the Lord. And O how many were in the bo
som of the Congn. prepared and made most for
an inheritance among the Saints in light!
Nevertheless we must own with shame one
confusion of faces, that thy aim with us has
not been fully obtained; many of they gracious
purposes with us have been frustrated; too often
has Satan been allowed to gain his point in
sowing tares among the wheat; too often has
the spirit of the world found entrance among
us; too often it was feared, that conformity to
the world would gain the ascendancy over


primitive plainess and genuine simplicity
nor have thy awful warnings and fatherly
chastenings always been duly attended to.
Indeed, it may be truly said, if it was not for
thy mercies we should have been consumed
thy long- suffering has been our salvation.
We are however still thro' thy mercy, O Lord,
thy people; Thou dost still own us as the
sheep of thy pasture; we still enjoy thy love
and watchful care, and being shelter'd under
the wings of thy grace, can trust in thy al
mighty protection against the enemies of our
peace and happiness; the word of God dwells
richly among us, and we possess every blessed
means of being furthered in our course of grace.
We now humbly beseech Thee, O Lord, Thou
Head and Master of this thy house & family
to pardon all our deviations from the path
of righteousness, and from there rules & or
dinances, wch thou hast given us, to regulate
our walk and conversation accordingly ~
Pardon our declension from the first love,
godly zeal and true devotedness to thy service,
Pardon our lukewarmness in evidencing
our love to Thee in loving one another with
a true heart fervently, and employing our


time and abilities in glorifying Thee, and
serving our neighbor in time of need. Par
don our timiorness in prayer & supplication,
our want of sympathy with the perishing
state of our fellow creatures, with their igno
ance and blindness with their distresses &
misery. Pardon our neglecting to improve
the means of grace, wch are so abundantly
minister'd unto us, and above all pardon our
??? ness in making use of that high pri
viledge, to live in constant love's fellowship
with Thee in time, so as we desire to live
with Thee to all eternity; yea, pardon all
our sins and trangressions, for thy great
mercy's sake. O form us soon into such a
people, over whom Thou mayest rejoice,
as a Bridegroom rejoiceth over the Bride,
as people zealous of good works. Let thy
Brns. Church take root downward & bear
fruit upward, that it man be like a tree
planted by the river side, wch spreadeth
its roots along the water.
O let the Servants of thy Congn. in every
department approve themselves as the Mi
nisters of God and fellow workers with Him;


direct them by Thy Holy Spirit, give them
the needful grace and unction, and support
them under all their difficulties.
Bless, O Lord, thy Congregation,
Bless each choir and family,
Bless the youth, the rising generation,
Bless the Children dear to Thee;
Bless thy servants, grant them grace and
unction,
That they may with care discharge their
function;
Lord, on Thee we humbly call,
Let thy blessing rest on all!
To the above extensive & circumstantial
Narrative, which our late dear & venerable
Brother has left behind him in his own hand
writing we will only add a few remarks re
specting his last days. The Appendix to his
Narrative, which for the sake of brevity is o
mitted, is dated Novr 29 1829 about 13 months
before his happy departure. Since that time
his health are strength, which had been
gradually declining from year to year, in
capacitated him in a great incasure from
taking the little air & exercise he had been


accustomed to do in his garden, and con
fined him almost entirely to his room. He
was no more able so take a part in the delibera
tions of the E.C. which he have previously attended
with great faithfulness & interest, whenever
his health would permit; and his intimate
acquaintance with the official concerns of
the Congn and those of the Irish Province during
his residence of 18 years in Gracehill qualified
him for rendering at times very effectual aid
in these consultations.
A fit of the gout to which he was subject
in winter had usually the effect of renewing
his health so that he could enjoy the latter
half of the year with comfort, employing
himself in reading, writing, quite exercise
in his gardens enjoying the Society
of his fellow labourers; but in the last
year, tho' not altogether free from the gout at
times, he does not appear to have had strength
of constitution to throw it out. In the place
of gouty, dropsical symptoms manifested
themselves and increased upon him, till
they proved the means of his happy departure
The direct manifestations with which he
was favoured from time to time of the
presence, peace, & love of his Saviour, often
caused his heart and lips to overflow with


gratitude & praises; and the review of the Lords
dealings with him from his youth, of the
goodness & mercy which had followed him
all the days of his life, with which he was
much occupied in his latter days, was fre
quently so overwhelming to him that he
declared, it was more than he could bear
in his weak state of mind & body. The
nature of his complaint was such as to
cause him many sleepless hours in the
night; but these were not unprofitably
spent. He occupied them with thinking in
the spirit of prayer, of his friends, of the Congn
Missions & of the work of God upon earth
in general, & in recalling to memory ed
fying verses & precious portions of the word of
God. The divine comfort & consolation
he derived fom meditating on the great
& precious promise with which the Scrip
tures abound, and with which his memory
was so well stored, that he could repeat
them with ease & fluency, induced him
to request, that the circumstance might be
mecitioned at his funeral, in the hope of
stimulating others, especially the young
people in the Congn: to study the word of
God more diligently, and to seek to have


their hearts and memories deeply and in
delibly impressed with divine truth; that
they might enjoy, the comfort & support them
when no longer able to hear or read it. He
had taken great pains to set his house as
order, even in a temporal point of view
so that when the time of his departure drew
near he could await it with calm com
posure and with unshaken confidence in
his God & Saviour, to whom he had committed
the keeping of soul & body, and for the sake of
whose precious merits he knew he should
meet with a gracious acceptance when
ushered into the presence of his God. The
evening before his end it was intimated to
him that he would probably soon be per
mitted to go to his eternal home, and a
was expressed that his mind continued in
& peaceful state. "To be sure" he replied "y
may to quite satisfied respecting that."
continued sensible to the last, but unable
speak much. About half past one o'clock p.m.
the next day Decr 30. 1830 he expressed a
to sit up in his easy chair. This had no soon
been done, than a sudden alteration took place
Br Mallaliece who had left him about
minutes before, was immediately sent


where the Brn & Srs that were about him joined
in singing a short verse, and he received
the blessing the Lord, and the Congn. The
words had scarcely been pronounced when
he fell asleep in Jesus without a sigh or
a groan, or even a motion of hand or foot.
Thus did this honored servant of the Lord
terminate his long & useful services in the
cause of his divine Master. He was Senior
Bishop of the Brns Church having been
consecrated to that office nearly 30 years
ago. Of his 56 years of active service in the
Brns. Unity, his Narrative shows that he
himself entertained a very humble o
pinion: he saw & lamented the imper
fection of them: but all, who were ac
quainted with him will give him the
testimony of a most faithful, laborious, inde
fatigable, and blessed servant of the Lord,
who gave himself wholly to the work & to
the ministry which he had received.
Sincerely attached as he was to the Church
of which he was to distinguished a member
his Memoir abundantly evidences that he
was no bigot; but that his heart expanded


to children of God of every denomination yea
to the whole human race, that he added to
brotherly kindness universal charity.
During the last 7 years of his life he has
enjoyed an anticipation of that sabbatic
rest into which he has now entered, having
been induced by age and its consequent in
firmities to lay down his offices, and it was
truly delightful to see him so cheerful, contented
and happy in his retirement. Having finished
his work he waited with the most confident
power yet with the most patient resignation
for the happy moment when he should be
permitted to enter with the joy of his Lord,
as a humble pardoned sinner, whose trust
and dependance was in the merits, the
atonement and righteousness of his
Saviour. He now rests in peace, after
a pilgrimage here below of 84 years
and 2 months.


