Obituary Notices
of several persons, who had died at Bailden in the
year 1837, communicated by Br. Libbey, who had
visited them during their last illnesses.
1. Joseph Bentley
After the afternoon service on Sunday April 30th
I was informed, that a poor man, labouring under a
mortal disease, wished to see me. My informant
added; "He is very ignorant, having never in his
life attended any place of Worship; but spent it
in sin and wickedness. At the last York Assizes 
he was tried for felony, but not convicted, the
prosecutor; from motives of compassion with
holding the required evidence. He is now suffe
ring from a blow, received in an affray with
the gamekeepers on Mr F's estate, when detected
with some of his companions in poaching."
We  ascertained, that it was not the 
fear of death, which induced him to search for me,
but that he showed some of persistance
and contrition of spirit; I went to see him, on
as my official notice allowed it.
When I entered his house and begun to speak
to him I perceived that the wound in his head had
quite exhausted his strength, and that his mind had
been bewildered by the presence of so many persons
who in the course of the day had come to see him. After


a few words I asked if he wished me to pray. But
even this he declined, saying, "So many have been
here today and prayed with me, that my head is
quite confused." I therefore left him, promi
sing to call again the following day. Feeling an
increasing interest in his case, I repeated my calls
almost daily, and somedays saw him more than once. 
The work of the Holy Spirit on his heart was stri
kingly evident, and being of an open turn of mind
his candid confession of himself, and the simplici
ty of his declaration, made the conversations wtih 
him more interesting as the following brief
notices of my interviews with him each show.
May 1st. He was sitting by the fire, and I took
my seat by the side of him. I had scarecly sat down
when he began very freely to disclose him feelings
and the state of his mind, experiencing very strongly
fear of death and the judgment. He trembled when
speaking of the crimes he had committed, and of his 
approaching death. I felt much for him, and in
silent prayer besought the Lord so to direct my
words, as to suit his care. Turning to him, I said, 
"I come to tell you good news." Instanly he exclai
med, "What is that?" I continued, "The Lord
 loves you." I shall not easily forget his look,
when he rejoined, That is impossible! He
cannot love such a wretch as I am." "Listen"


to me," said I, "while I tell you what He has done
for you. He came down from heaven, became
a poor man and, out of love to you and me and 
all sinners, was nailed to the cross, and shed His
blood to purchase pardon & happiness for us."
He was appeared very thoughtful, which I 
quoted several texts of Scripture on this subject,
illustrating it by allusion to common things
Br. I. Terry coming in our conversation was
interrupted, and I deemed it prudent to with
draw. He prefered my heart and, with tears in his
eyes, said; Please, sir, come again, for you have
done me good." It proved a great encourage
ment to me when informed by Br. Terry, that 
on my leaving the house, the sick man sat silent
for some time and then, turning to Br. T. said, "What
do you think Mr. Libbey has told me? He told me
that God loves me; yes, and he has proved 
it too. The Lord died for me on the cross. Is not
that good news, John?"
May 2nd. I found his mind dwelling on the subject
of the love of God; but still perplexed with doubts
and fears, being not yet able unreservedly to be
lieve the Gospel. A Divine ray of hope has indeed
burned into his soul, but at sinner unbelief had
him in bondate. This caused him He gave vent


to his feeling by short sentences, "O that I could
believe, that mercy can be shown to such a wretch
as me! I cannot pray aright: I cannot pray
enough." I repeated to him the beautiful de
clarative of our Saviour, "As Moses lifted up the
serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man
be lifted up, that whoever believeth in HIm
should not perish, but have eternal life." /Joh. 3.14/
I was Having explained it to him by referring 
the case of the wounded Israelites, he I exclaimed
in the simplicity of his heart; "Am I only to
look up?" I replied, "To look up means
to believe, and this is all our Saviour requires
you to do." "But," said he, "my heart is so very
wicked; O you do not know what a wicked
man I have been. Since our conversation 
yesterday I have thought more of my sins, than
I did before, and when I think how good God
has been to me, to do so mcuh for me, and that
He has not cut me off in my sins, I see that I 
have been sinning against love; This makes
me afraid. If I felt as good men feel, then I
could believe there was mercy for me, but, 
Oh! I have committed so many sins." To 
this I replied, "If you had committed as many
sins as all the men in the village, I would yet


encourage you to come to Jesus, for it is stands 
in the Bible; The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses
us from all sin." I further showed him, that
the Israelites were commanded to look to the
brazen serpent because they were wounded, and 
that they were healed when they did look, "so
must we," said I; "we must go to our Saviour,
because we do not feel happ well and happy in
our minds, beacuse we are sinners; and then He
will have mercy upon us." "Then," said he,
"we must first look to Jesus, or believe in Him; 
as we shall be pardoned." I replied, "Believe 
on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved."
The word was blessed to his soul.
May 4th: He expressed some doubts as to his
acceptance at last; and tho' he was evidently
enjoying a degree of rest & peace, yet gloomy
apprehension of death now and then shot across
his mind. I repeated the words, "Jesus has opened
the kingdom of heaven to all believers", adding, 
"He is the Master of the house and the Lord of
the kingdom, and says, "I have the key of David,
I open the door and no man can shut it, and I shut
and no man can open shut it." I continued, "you
are the master of your own house, If I came
to see you and found the door fastened I should


knock; and if you opened the foor I should come
in. We go by faith to our Saviour and ask to be
admitted into His kingdom; and He says, "I
have set before then an open door and no
man can shut it! Thus hath He opened the
kingdom of heaven to all believers." He re
mained thoughtful, but appeared much more
composed in his mind.
5. May 5th. I found him in a most delightful
state of mind. Among other things he said; "When you
came to see me last Sunday I was as ignorant as a beast.
Some persons told me to pray to God Almighty but 
I did so to forgive me; but I did not know how to pray
anymore than the ash in the fire. But now when
I sit alone, or lie sleepless in my bed, and think
of Jesus, how He was a poor man and suffered
for our sins, and how kindly He spoke to the people
the tears run down my face and I can pray to Him
in my heart; and I feel something that tells me, He
loves me, and will not leave me to perish at last."
I asked him, "If the Lord should be pleased to call you
soon out of the world, can you be satisfied, and can you
rest on what you have heard?" Looking at me
with a cheerful mien he replied, "To be sure I can;
what can I want more? Did He not die for me,
and does He not love me. I am a great sinner; but
I shall go to heaven." 
May 8th. I saw him for the last time, tho'


I had then no idea that he was so near eternity. His
expressions were not so clear and encouraging as the
preceding Satturday. This I could easily account for
when he told me, that a great many people had called
on him the day before, and many had prayed with him
and spoken so loud, which had so much affected his head,
that, /to me his own experience/ "I was so weak you
might have knocked me down with a feather." However,
what he said to of the state of his mind showed that 
he still depended for salvation solely on the merits of
Jesus. He departed about 2 o'clock the following
morning. From the testimony of those who were
with him at the time I have reason to believe
that the Lord graciously supported him in that trying
hour, enabling him to make a good confession of faith
in the God of his salvation. About ten minutes before
he left this word, he exhorted those present to seek
the Lord, adding, "I shall soon die; but, oh! how
bright, how blinded will the last mintues of my life
be when I am leaving this world of sin and misery,
and going to see my Saviour!"
My visit to this poor man excited many serious
reflections. In his case I saw in vivid colours
1. The unhappiness and folly of sin. My blood has 
chilled at the recitals of this man, when relating
the awful course of sin he had led his hairbreadth
escape from cruel death, and the unhappy state
of his mind during all this time, and, as he himself


expressed it, the heavy load he had had to carry
warily, the Devil is a hard taskmaster.
2. The Mercy of God in plucking sinners from ever
lasting burning. As the good shepherd He had fol
lowed this dying sheep thro' all his wanderings,
for it was evident from what he told me, that he had
not been without convictions and reproof of conscience
while persuing his wicked ways, and before his last
illness. On one occasion his remorse of consci
ence was so strong, that tho' he set out on a Sunday
morning to join his wicked comerades, the sight meeting
accidentally of a good man, whom he accidentally
met, so alarmed him, that he turned and leaped
over a wall, crying like a child. He actually turned
back, andn tried to pray to God, promising to lead
a different life. Scenes of folly again diverted his
mind, and obliterated serious thoughts.
3. The power of the Word of the Cross, when accompa
nied by the influence of the Holy Ghost, whose office it
is to glorify Jesus, by leading poor sinners to faith
in the atonement.
4. How the fruits of the Spirit appear in thou, who
have faith in Jesus, by resignation to the will of God,
love and thankfulness for His mercy - patience
under affliction - meekness and forgiving of sin
and a desire that others should enjoy ??? happi
ness, and attain to eternal life. 


