MARY BIRD
Memmoir of the very happily
departed Sister Mary Bird
She was born Dec 1. 1754 at Bath
of Parents who educated her with great
moral rectitude in the principles
of the Establish'd Church and was
from early youth the subject
of very serious questions.
After the death of her esteem'd
Father, she was plac'd at a Board
ing School in Bristol, where she
was instructed in the usual
Female accomplishments and
also French, Music, & Dancing 
which she learned with avidity
but whilst the Master was in
structing her in the latter she
was inwardly impressd with a 
voice within her heart saying
if you die this Night you will
go to Hell. This and other


convictions so drew off her attention
from all Worldly amuse
ments that she soon forgot all the 
songs she used to sing and often
sought retirement where she
may seek the Lord unobserved by
her Confessions they were more
suprized at her geat Change of Conduct
and sentiment, which some of 
them chose to ridicule. But our
Saviour who began this good work
of grace in her soul remanded by
by sermons or one ????
in she mend kindly drew near
when one day she was medite
ing in loneliness and suffered
those words of Isiah 60.1 
Arise Shine, for thy light is
come & the glory of the Lord is risen
upon thee. most favorable to her
This enabled her to proceed with


comfort & fresh courage the ????
way: the Gospel was not preach'd in
such delightfull abundance as 
at present in the Churches
of Bristol, yet in the name 
of Jesus was only sometimes mention'd
in a sermon. it was delightfull
to her Ear, a very short time
after her Change of Heart, When
preparing to go and to visit a Friend
she was suddenly seized with
an attack of Rheumatick Gout
in her Stomach & Limbs which 
seldom altogether left her yet
the rich promises mention'd 
in the holy Scriptures were by
the Holy Spirits teaching made
such sweet pasture to her Soul
that they yeilded her daily
Consolation and Instruction, She
was particularly fond of reading
works of ????? and ????
especialy Ecclesiastical by which
her mind became well in sound


and her Opinions fix'd by matter
of fact. Being returned from
Bristol home to her mother, she
constantly enjoy'd the blessing
of evengelical preaching, and was
for many years and attendant
to Lady Huntingdon Chappel where
she partook of the Sacrament.
She married at the age of 23 and had
five Children four of whom have
preceeded her into a Blissfull
Eternity. It was ? maternal tender
faithfullness her character particular
ly show she pay'd unremitting
attention to the health of Her Chil
dren and had an agreeable method
of informing them an understand
ing, which indeed her
instructions pleasing, but as soon
as the first dawn of reason commen
c'd she taught them to pray to our
Saviour telling them of his great love
to and suffering for them so that they
shd not need to go from home for ???
??? of mind, she often procured
innocent sensible books for their


amusement, for never were they
permited to sense an improper
shame. her watchfullness over her
two sons was exemplary, yet connected
with such affection that they were
drawn to obey her from love, tho'
severe discipline was not withdrawn held
when absolutely needfull. having apprenticed
her Eldest Son to the late Br Hazard
of Bath at his particular desire
where she knew he would be taken
care of, she returned to Bristol to place
her youngest son as an outdoor apce
to Mr C Count Upholsterer in May
1795. and on July 13 she and her Survi
ving Daughter opened a Day School 
with four scholars, in the ensue
ing July they had 40 to instruct which
school with many fluctuations. she
attended to till her sight failed, The
year following her Husband depart'd
this life relying in the merits &
blood of Christ, she then attended
Tabernacle but was intent on accompan
ying her Son Robt to which ever place
of Worship he prefered that he might
be much her careful inspection


and kept as much as posible worry those dan
gers which abound to the young in
such a large city. Her Daughters had
mean while joyned the Brn, till he
at Length come also contently
to Chapell. She now during the 
Edifying Ministry of our Esteemd Br
Clements was added to the Society and 
near the end of his stay here attend'd
to her Congregation privileges, Br
Swetner then became our faithfull
kind and beloved Minister who togeth
er with Br R Grimes extended the Shepherds
Crook so kindly that the dr youth who
had been previously turned from
darkness to light by an inward pow
erfull work of grace on his soul was
Brought into the blessed Fold and became
a dedicated Christian, and  
one Sunday unexpectedly send to her Mother from
going to the Sr Br Meeting. This greatly
rejoysed her heart, her Eldest son
also had experienced true convertion
under the Ministry of Br John ???
and became a member of the Congn
all her Family with her Sister
were mindedly walking the same
path to the Heavenly ?????
In the sequel it pleased the Lord


to bereave her of those Children so tenderly
lov'd and she had to witnes one often
another step over there Heavenly
Father Threshold First her youngest
Son then her second Daughter Mary
and her dr youngest daughter Elizabeth
lastly her Son Thomas who had served
his Lord in several Congns & depar
ted this life at Palm Sunday 3 month
months after her sister also died since
that time her sight and her once
attentive memory have been gradualy
failing yet her heart could retain
its past and present mercies
and those texts and hymns which
had solace'd the morning of her life be
came her evening Song it was always 
her hearts delight to believe distress
and to awaken in her ?? a song
for these Souls Salvation and many will
remember her impressive admonitions
Aug 13, 1832 she was at Chapel for the last 
time, her weakness from time to time
so increased that she wanted with 
longing the Lords coming being sometimes
weary with the length of the way 
yet wishing to be quite resigned. Oct 19
last, the Holy Communion was admin
istered to her in her habitation was
enjoyd by her with much thankfull


ness Nov. 24 1833 in the afternoon she
had a paralitic seizure which greatly affec
ted her head & speech but her heart was
firmly fix'd on the Rock of Ages, When ask'd
if she felt Jesus presions she answerd
why and the articulation was difficult 
yet she gave all who spoke to her to
assertion that her foundation
stood firm, having her ????
within the Veil, the prayers offerd up
by Br Essex at her bedside seemed to 
be feeling by enjoyd and solemnly joynd
and by her waiting spirit Dec 1 being her
birhday she spent it in a sweet Holy
Calm often trying to articulate mercies
mercies. and when inform'd of the Kind
remembrance of a dr Friend, exclaimd
mind kind & was truly thankfulll for
the mercies of the lord & everything given or
done for her, she seem'd always quite
inwardly to enjoy texts and verses read
or recited & every sympathizing best??
felt some pleasing perception of the Hea
venly peace which pervaded her Soul
she never expressed complaint or ???
???? in her suffering, which (tho' so
vivid for sometime with ease) towards the
end was increasingly painfull only
not a ??? or doubt escapt appeard to dis
turb her mind, on Dec 4 a change took
place whih made it evident her release 
from suffering was at hand, and at a few
minutes before 9 Thursday Morn the weary
pilgrim entered the celestial city there to 
rest in Jesus her beloved Saviour Aged 79 years. 


