The course of Life of our Dear Br William Birkhead
who departed this Life March the 13th 1771
our Dear Br William Birkhead was born Sept. 29. 1703
At Dighton, in the Parish of Huddersfield, where he was brought
up to the Church of England. He learned the clothiers Trade;
But he did not Follow it long, before he Took wholly To
Husbandery, in which he continu'd for the Chief part of his
Life. but when his Strength Fail'd him for that Employment
He Took to carding & Spining, whereby he got his Bread at home
with his Dear Wife. prettily & Honestly till with in a few days
of His End. He left us nothing in Writing from under his own
Hand, concerning his Life, therefore: we trust content ourselves
with The Following. In the year 1740 he was awakened 
at Dighton, in which little Place, the Brn kept there Meetings, and
Settled a little Society. In the year 1758 he was receiv'd into the
Society here in Mirfield. April the 4th 1763. He was at Fulneck
receiv'd into the congn. went the first time to the Holy comunion
at Fulneck in 1766. April 26. He was Married in 1726 To Hanah
Ainley the present Widow; their Marriage was Bless'd with
9 Children, 4 Boys, & 5 Girls. 6 are gone home; 2 Daughters
are in the Choir House at Fulneck; and one Son is with
The Brn in North carolina. our Happily departed Br was
of a Still and Bashful Turn of Mind, and not apt to Push
Himself for ward as Some are; and left the Disposal of himself
quite to the Brn with regard to his Degrees in the congn. and on
the other hand: the Brn are also well known that they are not over
Hasty with regard to reception into the congn. and admission to the
L.S. and this between them both; the Time was Protracted to an
unusual length, which appears from the Date of his awakening
1740. To his reception in to the congn in 1753. however our Savr.
knows best how to lead those whom He will make his own; and
This is a sufficient reason for us to believe that it was the right
way, & the best. our dear Br Birkhead Enjoy'd a pretty good.
Share of Health in General, but about 4 months ago, Symptoms
of a Dropsy appear'd, yet so Favourable, that he could do


His Work to the last. He was not confin'd to his Bed above 2 or 3
Days, which is a Wonder in such Disorders. He came to the
Chapel to the Holy Comunion: almost to the last; and had it but
once brought home to his House, where he Enjoy'd it with his dear Wife
with a believing & Hungery heart; and beg'd Sincerely: that he
might Enjoy it the Next with our Savr. He was an Honest, Simple
and Childlike Br a Man of very few Words: but His unexceptionable
Walk and conduct Spoke for him, and gain'd him the Esteem,
and Sincere love of all the Brn & Sisters in the congn.
Most commonly at Speaking with him before the comion; he was
Found in a State, & Situation of Heart & Mind: which was a joy to his
The Labourer. He thought of Himself as becomoth a Sinner: that he
was unworthy, of the least of Savrs Mercies, & Favours. He often
Wonder'd at his call to the People, and Esteem'd it a particular
Lot of Grace, that he belong'd to the Church of God. He was a Meek
and Patient Heart during his Sickness. the 13th Instant after
The Meeting: I was told, that he was very Low, and would Probably
not over live the Night, & that he desir'd to see me: it was
most violent weather, however: I went, and made Him my last
visit, and some very tender, & Hearty conversation with Him
in the End of which: I Bless'd for his departure, gave Him a
a Kiss, & my leave of Him, and to Him, to Morrow I Shall be
oblig'd to be from home, but that my Heart & Prayers should
conduct him to the very Door of his Eternal rest. the
very same Night about 10. o'clock, He fell Softly & Happily
asleep, in the 68 year of His age. Saturday 16 we want to His House
and Sung some verses with a Happy feeling: then the corpse
was carried to Fulnek.


