Memoir
of the W. Br. James Boothroyd,
who departed in Rastrick, on Sunday 4 Dec 1835
I was born on the 6th Sep 1773. My father
was a teacher of Music, & as soon as I was
able, he expected me to assist him in that
line, & especially by leading the boys in Singing
at the Chapel, which we attended. Almost im
mediately after his death, I sold my bass (vio
lincello) & all the Music which I possessed,
because I had reason to think, that Music
had often led my father to public houses.
I now left the place of worship, which I
had attended with him, & went regularly
to a Dissenting Chapel, & though it
was really laughable I thought myself a very
good man. After some time the Minister
of the place joined with another person
in the purchase of the lease of a farm. But
as he could not have it all himself, he
divided his share of it into smaller lots
& sold me one of them. In settling the
money part of the transaction, I thought
he cheated me, & I discontinued attending
on his ministry. Now I thought, though
I had last the idea of my goodness, & went
to no place of worship, I am however a
more honest man than the Minister.
In a little time I became a Member
of a Reading Society formed in Rastrick.
In our Library we had Tom. Pains',
Volneys & other Infidel Works, which
I read, & I soon became a bold
Deist.


I endeavoured to persuade others to
come over to my views; but I hope I
did not succeed. I now fell ill & was in
imminent danger. My neighbour
Chas. Thornton heard of it & came to see me.
I used to laugh at this good man for
his religion, & on seeing him pass our
house on his way to the Brethrens
Chapel at Wyke, I often said to myself,
"Well if I went to a place of worship, I would
go to one nearer home." Chas. began to
talk to me; but I replied I believe
the danger is now over & laughed
at him. Turning away from me
with a manner that bespoke deep
regret, he observed James, it is however
well to be prepared" & left me The
Holy Spirit applied that simple
word to my heart, & I could do nothing
but think of it. On my recovery, as
soon as I was able, though under the
immediate observation of my deistical
companions, & my head was still bound
up, I accompanied Charles to Lower
Wyke Chapel, & the Gospel truths
which I heard there deeply affected me.
I was timid & too bashful to apply for
connections with the Brethrens Church;
but Doctor Oakly then the Minister, one Sunday
after the service, came to me into the
gallery, & said "I have observed, that you
have attended here regularly for some
time, & have often been much affected
I suppose year would like to join us, step
into the house with me." He took me


into the parlour, & observing me quite overcome
he excused himself & left me for a little
time. I now gave vent to my tears
& recovered. On his return I could
converse with him & soon obtained
all my privileges in the Congregation.
My wife gained & obtained hers at
the same time. For, though on my
becoming a believer; I do not believe
that she experienced a similar change;
yet she did not oppose my attending
our Chapel, but soon came along
with me, & the means of grace
were much blessed to her also.
It was about this time that I
moved to a farm in Bradly lane, where
I resided twenty one years. I was very
well off when I went to it; but farming
reduced me to poverty. From thence
I came hither to Rastrick, & the Lord
has indeed for these nine years been
very, very merciful to me. About a
twelve month before I came hither, I lost
a son who died in prison, where he was
confined for poaching. I mo returned
over his trans-gressions, but on his
corpse being brought home, I would
have the lid of the coffin lifted up
& his countenance appeared so
sweet & with such a smile, that
I said to myself "this cannot he
the corpse of one in misery."
Being quite alone, I knelt down
by the side of the coffin & prayed


to the Lord, that if he had taken his
soul to himself he would give me
a token of it, & to let that token be, the 
falling of some rain about the time of
his interment, It was in that a very hot 
& dry summer, which we had & yet on
his remains being taken out of the hearse
& all the way to the church there fell
tho there had appeared no previous indication
of a rain, a most gentle & refreshing genial
shower, & I felt assured that the Lord
had thus answered my prayer
& that my son was safe in heaven
with him. About two years since my
late wife departed, & I had every satisfaction
regarding her spiritual state.
She gave a good testimony of her
faith & hope before her disease,
& I feel assured, that both she & our
son are in heavenly glory.
It is nearly two years since I
was first affected with the disease,
with which I have ever since been
troubled, & which seems likely to
be the means of my going home.
When I was able to came to the
Chapel, I was regular in my attendance
& O I have felt it often good to be
there I love the congn & pray far the
Brn. & Srs. I with I had told my Brn
more of my experience, it might
have done them good.


Since I have been confined by
this illness, about a twelve month ago
I made my deep experience, it appeared
to me that the Lord had forsaken me
Oh! I was distressed. No one knows what
these feelings are, but such as have had them. Better
indeed is it to feel forsaken of the Lord
I prayed fervently to him to let me
see in what I had grieved him. His
Holy Spirit shewed me that I had offended
him in a money-affair. It was
a book-debt upon which I had promised
to pay interest but a friend advised
me not to pay it. I had had an acquittance
& was therefore in the eyes of men clear.
But the Holy Ghost shewed me that
I was guilty in the business, & I said
"I will pay it, if I part with every
thing to do so." My sons, on my men
tioning it to them, quite coincided
with me, & I have paid a good part
of it, & have the means of liquidating
the remainder. As soon as I had
determined to pay it, I felt such peace
& satisfaction as I cannot describe
& I continue to enjoy the peace of my
Saviour He has assured me of my
pardon & I rejoice in the experience
of his favours. The more I think
of his dealings with me, the more
I must say he has had great mercy upon
me, who was once a bold Deist. Some
time after I became a believer, I met
a man in Huddersfield, who addressed
me, & asked what I now thought of the


subjects of religion I did not know
him, but he said, that he had some
time before in a public house in
that town heard me hold an argument
against them. "I was then" said he "in
doubt about them but since that time
I have been convinced of their truth,
& have heard that you are a believer
now." We rejoiced together in our mutual
faith & strengthened each other in the
Lord. Though my children, except
one, do not go with me to Lower Wyke,
I rejoice to say that they feel pleased to
join in prayer, either when any one
comes to visit me, or when we appear
before the Lord at the family altar.
Before the decease of my dear wife, I
did not pray with my family, I was
too timid, but since her departure,
I have ventured & have found
that the Lord hears very simple
prayers. He knows, hears, & answers
what comes from the heart, & that
alone is prayer, such as pleases him.
I think I shall not be here many
days longer, & I know that the Lord
will take me to himself. I long
to go to him & I have nothing now
upon my mind to make me
uneasy. He is truly precious to me,
& I shall live with him in glory.
Thus far our late Brother dictated
on the 26 of March 1836.


Having in one of his visits in conversation
with the brother to whom he dictated
the above during one of his visits
spoken of this freedom from temp
tation, at their next intercourse he
said "When I told you the other day
that I did not now feel temptation
I fear I went too far: for since you were
here, many things have perplexed my
mind, & I have felt sorry that I said I was not
tempted now. But I believe the Lord
has heard my prayer & given me his
pardon & his peace." In addition to his
distressing & painful disease, he was when
visited on April 15th dreadfully afflicted
with hiccoughs & observed in a low whisper
"I have had these the time almost un
interruptedly for six days; but the Lord
enables me to bear them without re
pining, He does all things well & will
with the trial make a way to es
cape." In after visits about this
time his remarks were all of a grate
ful nature & though still much dis
tressed by his hiccoughs, he testified
that the Lord had done much for him 
& that he had great reason to praise
him. Once in particular he seemed
almost exhausted with this disturbing
affection, & said "I pray the Lord it
forgive me & cleanse me from all my
since & end this distressing complaint;
But he does all things well"


His patience was quite exem
plary & persevering, & his whole
behaviour under his severe bod
ily trials through the lengthen
ed period of his enduring them,
was truly edifying.
On Nov. 7th he said "I am very weak
& I suffer a good deal; but my Saviour
does not leave me. He is still
precious I have everything I can want."
Being told he was much inquired
after in the Congregation, he
replied, "I am glad that I have the
esteem of my Brn. I used
to enjoy every much among them,
& I pray the Lord to bless them all.
I am waiting his time & shall
rejoice to go to him."
Nov. 16th he remarked; on the a visit
paid him by a brother who in which he had
expressed the hope that our late brother shwould
find the Lord kind & gracious
of the end. "I replied" said he
"I have not a doubt of it." After a
very significant pause, he added
doubt! doubt! I do not doubt it at
all He will keep me to the end


I suffer much at present but
the Lord will support & comfort
me. He is mine & I am his
Joined with him in a new communion
And his latter passion is
The foundation of this union.
He appeared on the 24th to be at
the point of departure & barely 
whispered "I am favoured with 
the same enjoyments as yet the
Lord is still good to me." And just
when on the 30th he appeared so
excruciated with pain, as to be unable
to speak, he said I am not penitent
enough." Supposing that by this
he estimated he had not as clear
& satisfactory a views of his intent
in Christ as the was wont to enjoy,
his visiter asked him, if he still
felt the Lord near & precious? With
an emphasis, of which he was thought
to be alltogether incapable, he
replied, "O Yes, I do" He moaned
much but still signified his
resignation to the Lords will


From this time he said but little
except in his delirium which was
from much pain in his head. In
there he often called upon God the
Lord, proving that even when he
was not fully conscious of his
state, the bent of his mind was
the inclination of his heart were towards
his God & Saviour. On the 2nd Dec.
he became insensible & lay this
state till the 4th. About noon
this day his enlarged spirit went
to join the blessed above, & praise
him whom he loved while here
& whom he now beholds in glory
His age was 63 1/4 years.


