Wm Broadbent's life, dictated Aug 14. 1821.
Born Oct 13 1743 Longwood nr Huddesfd Parts Clothiers, irreligs
Another Boy wth mecorngfeal ?? Cong School, his Parts Methodists he said: We shd
love our Savr thus when we die, happy in heaven; how good it is
to ??? ye Lord." Many other calls someth. very thotful agn care
less, strong call at Melton in Chapel in readg Psalm: Thy words sweet
as honey so thot: What can this mean? struck me much. retired
fr. congs. I said. Dr Lord let me know how sweet it is! I re
member full well, when I enjoyed somethng of it. Another visit fr.
Sp of God talked wth Part about, Father said: Our great
Lad is going off his wits, pray they Nothing talk to him so
bring him off that nonsens, abt 23 yrs old (learnd Cloth
makg)  looked on as a solid still Lad; thot I wd marry
to go hand in hand to heaven, courtg 2 or 3 yrs resolved
to be relig. together, marrd at 25 yrs, she 24; mard 13 yrs
8 childn (4 livg) she recovrd fr. childbed but said: I shall die;
& I am witht a Sav. cd I but see a Br (we had 2 or 3 yrs before
attded Brn in Wighthome Anders & ??? ???? Mirfd) Sav. left me; I
directed her wth great freedom to mercy-seat; Br Caldwill called,
ablysy to her, she dyed. Before then I once diggg her from our Moor
fell prostrate asked of help, rose unspeakably refreshed
deeply convcd of sin --  much addictd to Pasn & hasty words,
fell agn into this, then ready to despr, almost tempted to put
end to my life, no spiritual fnd convictn was wrong by H.
Ghost by means of witnessing death of 2 childn & a man; prayed till exhausted: O Lord
As knownt thots of heart, remove distress yet mercy &c viz
such virtue in blood or spoken in Comn servce let it avail.
Soon all distress over Sav. as if stood before me (But alas!
not been faithful to that. Wife remded me: There is a way to
fall off.) I saw piercd side. I am Garlick & I makg hay toge-
ther asked him: why he left Brn ? he Comm and his unfaithfulness
told me I was called to Moravs, but that I shd be much tempt-
ed. We went to Wighthouse preachg together; much blessed
to me. Our acquaintce very useful. 7 yrs a Widr by the day


In that time joined to Brn recd Sept 29 1787. H.C. Aug. 30
1788 at Fuln, Left wth 7 small childn, wrought hardy main
tained them dectly battled manifold temptats, got thro' well
that was Lord's doing. Mard agn Oct 26 1789 she had one child
it died; this she impart to me & unto Brn we lived in Street
wth Jno Foster f. 16 months & then to Fuln; bread-carrier
f. Brns Bakehouse Once comg home fr. Otley in darkest
night, afraid, drawn into prayer: that he knew evry thg knew
my distress, & that wd help me - in little word nr. Horseforth Lord
heard me, eased burden taken away, came home cheerfull Master
asked me: How so cheerful? must have drunk? I thot it a great
deliverce. In 1812 dangersly ill I belid I shall not live Oct.
over.


