Received in Fact
Feb. 12th 1836
Wyke May 28
 Mirfield 4 Jan. 1836


Forwarded to
Dukenf. on Feby 18th 36
Mirfield 4th Jan. 1836


Memoir
Of the Single Sr Rosina Brown, who
entered into rest at Fulneck Nov 1st 1836
aged 59 years & 10 months.
As she has left no written account of the
Lords gracious dealings with her, the follow
=ing notices of the most remarkable events
in her life, have been supplied by her more
intimate friends. 
Verily I say unto you, There is no man
that hath left house, or parents, or brethren,
or wife, or Children, for the Kingdom of
God's sake, who shall not receive mani-
fold more in this present time, & in the
world to come life everlasting Luke XVIII
29. 30. 
The Sgl Sr Rosina Brown was
born in Belfast in Ireland Janry 4th 1777.
Her parents occupied a respectable situa-
tion & were members of the Church of England
She was bereaved of both father & Mother
in childhood. after their decease one of
her aunts took the charge of her & gave
her a liberal education adapted to that
rank in society, in which it was


supposed she would move in after life.
Her Aunt took particular pains to instill
into her youthful mind a high sense
of honour and independance, in order to
stimulate her to aspire after unimpeach
=able moral conduct in the sight of men
& to avoid every mean & sordid action,
prompted by mere self interest.
Tho' this was a poor substitute for
religious principles, & too often proves
a very flimsy covering to the selfishness
of the uncencored mind: in the case
of our late Sister it served to keep her
moral character & conduct unstained
She often referred to this as a gracious
leading of Divine Providence, for in
the absence of better principles it
restrained her when the native ardour
of her disposition, her lively imagina
tion & warmth of feeling would have
beguiled her from the path of rectitude
But expecting the same honourable
conduct from others she was easily
duped by the high pretensions & fair
promises of designing & self interested
persons.
After the death of her Aunt which she acquired


sufficient property to live independant 
but she could not bear the idea of busying
the splend God had given her in the earth 
& being
By the last will of her Aunt she was
entitled to considerable property.
But a near relation, who had it in
possession, & to whose word of honour
she had too implicitly trusted, deprived
her of the whole; because payment could
not be enforced by the law.
A few weeks after he died of a brain
fever.
By this dishonest proceeding she was
at once reduced from afluence to abject
poverty. In this distressing extremity
one of her cousins took her into his
house as governess to his Children; &
she afterwards remained for several
years as one of his family. Her Cousin
moved in the higher rank of Society, &
his house was the frequent rendezvous
of the aristocracy of the neighbourhood.
A high sense of honour was the ruling
principle of its inmates & visitors, who
while freely admitting the Gayeties &
amusements of fashionable life, preserved


outward decorum & the show of morality.
Of religion there was just enough to
keep alive a knowledge of the being of
God, & a degree of severence for his holy
word & the ordinances of religion. On
Sundays the family attended the Unitarian
Chapel, & in the evening a chapter in
the Bible or a a sermon was read,
This it must be admitted, was a
very unfavourable situation for acquiring
sound scriptural knowledge & saving
faith in Christ; yet it was here
that the riches of His Grace were magni
fied in the experience of our late sister.
Secret misgivings as to the soundness
of her religious profession created dis=
=quietude & she longed for something
more stable on which to rest the hopes
of her immortal soul, than the princi-
=ple which had hitherto been the main
spring of her sentiments & actions.
She frequently searched the scriptures
but the Socinian notions she had inbib
=ed, cast a vail over the plainest pass
=ages & the light of the Gospel was
obscured by the darkness of her own
mind. Here it deserves to be mention


-ed, that, while still groping in the
dark herself she was made the instrument
of directing a young lady, who like her
self was a serious inquirer after di-
vine truth, into the way of peace, and
who "receiving with meekness the engras
-ted word" became a true believer in
Jesus sooner than her instructeress.
At this important crisis the
Lord provided for her instruction
in the saving truths of the Gospel. Two
ministers, hearing her own name
came to Belfast. The one was her cousin.
& a Clergymam of the Church of England
& the other Independant Minister.
their Sermons roused the attention of
many; & their bold confession of Christ
crucified, as the only ground of a sinner's
Justification produced the same effects
there as it ever has done. To some it
proved foolishness & a stumbleing
block; to others the evidence and power
of God unto Salvation. Thro' divine
grace our late Sister belonged to the
latter class of hearers. The truth as it
is in Jesus made not a transient, but
an abiding impression on her heart.


By the blessing of God it was deepened
by means of her intercourse with these
Ministers & other pious friends, & by
private reading of the Scriptures medi-
=tation & prayer.
The change wrought in her by the
power of divine grace did not escape
the notice of her worldly acquaintances:
nor could it long remain concealed from
herself, that a new direction had been
given to all the sensibilities of her soul.
Her gay friends at first jeered and
upbraided her with being righteous
over much; & failing to attain their
aim in this way, they became cool
& reserved in their behaviour towards
her. She her self felt not only the
irksomness but the danger of a situation
where all she heard & saw tended only
to lull the conscience asleep, & supplant
the love of God by rivetting her affectious
to the world.
This produced a severe struggle as mutual
sincere affection subsisted between her
& her cousin's family tho' the latter dis
-liked her new religion. If she remained
with them she would enjoy every temporal


comfort; but her immortal soul would
bestarved & might be finally lost. If
she left their hospitable mansion, poverty
& destitution stared her in the face
she felt she could not serve God &
Mammon; still the question arose,
What must I do? & Whither must I go?
It was not to be expected that these
questions should be at once & easily solved
by one who was still a learner in the
School of Christ, when veterans in
faith are at times tempted to compromise
their principles for the sake of temporal
advantage.
In this conflict faith in God
finally proved victorious. She resolved
to leave home & friends & like Abraham,
to go whither the Lord, in His providence
should guide her steps notdoubling
that He would guide her steps prepare
the way before her. Every thing was
ready for her journey; but the right
time was not yet come- On her way
to the coach office she was met by the
Dean of Belfast with whom she had
some acquaintance. He prevailed upon
her to return to her Cousin & take a little


more time for consideration before she
took such a step, which might plunge
her into the deepest distress. After much
vacillation she at last, tho' very reluctantly,
yielded to this importunity.
Her Cousins family willingly reopened
their hearts & came to her, delighted, that
she had abandoned a scheme, which had
deprived them of the pleasure of her society,
& which as it regarded herself they considered
very injudicious & precipitate. But she
was not at ease her conscience secretly rep
=proaching her with unfaithfulness; & neither
the Kindness of her friends, nor the temporal
comforts daily enjoyed under the roof of her
Cousin, could satisfy the craving of her soul,
which longed for more substantal treasures,
than this would can afford. She longed
to breath in more wholesome air, than the
heart sickening atmosphere of fashionable
society.
In the mean time a pious friend;
who had visited Gracekill gave her some
account of it & of the constitution of a
Moravian settlement adding that the
Brethren had similar establishments in 
England. To our late Sister this was wel


=come news, & the more she thought of it
the stronger became her conviction, that if she
could find an asylum in one of thes settle-
ments, it would fully meet her wishes.
More reasons than one induced her to give
the preference to an English settlement
At the end of six months she bade a final
farewell to her friends & native country, un-
certain where she might find rest for
the soles of her feet, & with no other prospect
of obtaining a livelihood, than the promise
of the Cousin reluctantly given that he
would not see her in absolute want.
Recollecting that a person residing on the the coast of
Scotland, owed her a sum of money she first
went thither; but her application for the
payment of the debt was fruitless. From thence
she proceeded to Fulneck; where she arrived
in the Summer of 1822 & took lodgings at
the Inn where she received many marks of
kind attention. Tho' she lived in the
most frugal manner, seldom partaking
of more than two meals aday; she at the
close of mine weeks months her purse nearly
empty. Now again her faith in God was
put to a severe trial, & she had nothing
to depend on but His promises "The


needy shall not always be forgotten,
the expectation of the poor shall not
perish for ever" Ps IX. 18. The Lord
was not unmindful of His promise,
but its fulfillment was delayed till
every day of hope had vanished.
Application for assistance had been
made by herself & others, to her friends in
Ireland; but no answers had been returned.
Too honourable to brooke the idea of
becoming burdensome to strangers she
resolved to quit the place. Everything
was ready for her leaving Fulneck, the
cart to convey her & her trunk to the coach
stood at the door. At this critical moment
on the turn of which her future destiny
appeared suspended, her forlown hope
was revived. The postman brought
her a letter from her cousin inclosing
a sum of money & containing the promise
of a yearly allowance. And though this
allowance was barely sufficient to sup=
ply the most common necessaries of
life; she received it with most
fervant gratitude, as sent by the Lord
in answer to her prayer, & as confirm
ing this promise, "Bread shall be given


his water shall be sure." Isa XXXIII. 16.
The chief obstacle, which had hitherto
stood in the way being now removed; she
applyed for leave to live in the settlement,
which was readyly granted. Throug the
kindness of friends she was enabled to
rent two small apartments in the
widows' house, & fit them up in a
manner suited to her circumstances.
Here the same gracious Providence which
from the day when she left home & Kindred
"for the kingdom of God's sake" had rich
ly provided for her temporal wants,
still attended her remaining steps on
the journey of life.
Small as the promised allowance
was, the remittances did not always
arrive at the stipulated times; so that
she was often left pennyless & kept in
suspence for days & even weeks. But
tho' cast down she did not despair,
& or more occasions than one, when she
had given up all hope, & been brought
to that filial submission to the will
of God, even to pine away in penury,
if He should so appoint, the expected
help came. Such striking interposition


of Divine Providence filled her with
admiration, & strengthened her confidence
in the Lord. As proof of her gratitude
she did not unfrequently expend a
part of what she had received in deeds
of charity, saying, "It is a gift from God,
& I owe at least a title to Him if He
will graciously condescend to accept
it."
The more her wants of temporal comforts
multiplied; the more striking were the
providential means by which they were
relieved. At the very time when she
became a sufferer from the complaint
under which she finaly sank, & when
she needed additinal help & comforts
her relations grew more unmindful
of her necessities & aid from them, if
not entirely withheld became more
uncertain. In this time of extreme need
God raised up friends for her, where she
had no reason to expect it. More than 
once donations in money were sent her
without her ever knowing from whom
they came. In every instance she
received them as a gift from the Lord.
Having received such a gift not many


days before her departure, she put it
in an evelop, on which was written
in her own hand.
"To the glory of my God & Saviour
may it be sanctified; & may his
Eternal blessing rest on the kind &
generous friend; & aid & assist me
in my many trials."
Something must still be added, showing
the goodness of the Lord in richly dis-
=penceing spiritual blessings to our late
Sister; especially since she became a
a resident in our place.
On her birthday jany 4 th 1823 she for
the first time joined our congn in com-
=memorating the Lords death at His Holy
Supper; and in the year following, with
full purpose of heart, entered into our
special covenant, which was sealed to
her by reception into the Congregation
on Novr 13th In reference to this she was
ever ready to say, "The lines are fallen
unto me in pleasant places; yea I have
& goodly heritage Ps XVI. 6.
Her faithful use of all the means
of grace so abundantly provided in
our Settlements made it evident


that to seek the Kingdom of God & His
righteousness was the inmost desire
of her Soul. The daily study of scripture,
unremitting attendance in the house of
God, & converse with her friends on spirit
tual subjects occupied a considerable
portion of her time & proved a never
failing source of delight. Her views
of religion became clearer & more purely
evangelical. God manifested in the
flesh was to her the object of profound
veneration, the sole basis of her hopes for
time & eternity. When speaking of the work
of Redemption the ardous of her mind &
& the warmth of her imagination gave
a tone to her expressions, which to some
might appear the effect of enthusiasm.
yet it was in reality no more than the
over flowing of a grateful heart when con
templating the love of Christ in its im=
=measureable extent, reaching from time
to Eternity the theme of immortal songs
in the beatifie vision of God & the Lamb
These powerful feelings were not
absorbed in mere contemplation of the
love of God in Christ. They were gracious-
=ly vouchsafed to her as a counter poise to


her trials in life especially during her
last severe bodily afflictions. Hard as her
lot might appear, her heart responded to the
words of the Apostle, "Who shall separate
us from the love of Christ? shall tribula
tion or distress or famine or nakedness?
Nay in all these things we are more than
conquerors through him that loved us"
Rom VIII. 35-37.
As a member of society she made it
appear, that her faith was not a dorment
but an achive principle. Founded upon
the love of Christtoher, it worked by love
towards them, who were equally the purchase
of his blood. While in the enjoyment of
health much of Her time was spent in
writing the sick & the poor instructing them
in the way of Salvation by leading the Bible
and conversing with them. If she found
any in needy circumstances she always re-
lieved them, even beyond her means, &
never failed to use her influence with
her friends to mitigate their sufferings.
It has been related by an individual
well acquainted, with ^the case that there was a
poor aged & infirm couple, both of them
now dead who by her unremitting solici-


for their comfort comfort, were blessed
both in their spiritual & temporal concerns,
& for eight years; a week seldom pulsed,
in which she did not visit them two
or three times.
The illness, which proved
the means of her dissolution, & which
commenced nealy two years ago, had probab
=ly been brought on by the great chang in
her mode of living, from a very generous to a
very spare diet. During this protracted
& heavy affliction the consolation of Christ
abounded in her. Deeply conscious of
her sinnfulness she was keept humble at the
feet of our Saviour, & at the same time
increased in love & confidence in Him.
Fully aware that her complaint, being
a dropsy, might in a moment, when
least expected, cut the thread of life,
she habitually yet patiently waited
for the coming of her Lord. And He came
sooner, than she, or those who were with
her, looked for it. The last day of October
uncommon weakness & other dangerous sy-
=mptoms indicated, that her days on
earth were nearly fulfilled. Soon after 
midnight she lost the power of speach


& sank into a state of insensibility, from
which she never awoke till her immortal
 spirit took its flight into the reigon of
bly there to find the promise fully
realized, that all the faithful subjects
of Christ's Kingdom on earth shall reign
with Him in His heavenly Kingdom.
Among her papers were found a
Prayer & a Letter in her own hand writing
which as they are litterally the language
of her heart form a suitable appendix
to the preceeding account of her life.
A prayer written just before she
left Ireland, & as she herself expresses it,
before she knew, that she, even as others,
was a poor sinner.
"O merciful GOD!! instruct my soul
further to penetrate into thy glory! O
make thyself manifest unto me as
thou art in Christ Jesus. Reign, there
fore, most Holy Spirit to make known
to me the heights, the breadths & the depths
of the eternal love of Christ, and his
predestinaty mercy; for as the hart panheth 
after the streams, so panteth my soul after
the knowledge of God. And Lord


deem it not presumption in me, if
I say, I cannot now be satisfied with the
crumbs which fall from thy table:
but I look up to thee for solid substance
which must confirm me in Thee to
all eternity. Enable me therefore to
trust thy promises & by clinging to
Thee with the eye of faith, may I still
continue to grasp at each mercy as
it flows from thy almighty throne.
Come Thou, blessed Lord & let me see
Thee, as thou art in Jesus, & in the
Church in Him from the foundation
of eternity, that, by thus viewing thee
I may be made worthy by the blood
of the covenant for that union with
Thee which passeth all finite conception.
Lord if this desire come from Thee,
it will return in blessings: & in thy
covenant engagement rests my hope
for its fulfillment, that I may Know
thee as the great Redeemer of thy people."
"And then shall sweet salvation's song"
my gladened heart rejoice,
Renewed by streams of love divine
Assist my feble voice."


2 Letter to a Friend, written when 
she suffered much from weakness
& pain, having undergone a second
operation about three months before her
departure.
My dear Friend allow me to
assure you of my prayers on this
your natal day, that our ever blessed
& glorious Redeemer may bless you
with every spiritual & temporal
gift: as it is in Him alone we
can look for the fulfillment of every
promise which Scripture contains.
O my dear- If the Lord's voice as the
herald of the morning were to say
to us, this year thou shalt die, how
sweet, how happy would it be for
you & my self then to answer,
Lord my times are in thy hands, Say,
can there be a union among the most
intimate friends more tender more
loving, than union with Jesus?
O beloved Lord wear us from all
things here that we may be living
nearer to Thee: that as the last year
of our pilgrimage lessens to months,
& months to weeks, & weeks to days,


yea to the day, the hour, the very moment
of our departure from this body of sin
& death, we may be ready. May our
last expiring words be of Jesus & His
love. And then, O Lord, come speak
with power & sweetness to our souls,
as to him on the cross, Today shalt
thou be with me in paradise- May
all this be ours."


