died Feb. / 48
Our late Sr Alice Catton was
bore at Hathwaite in Huddersfd in
Novr 1767, her parents being in
connection with the Brns church & mem
bers of our Cogn at Mifield who enjoyed
the Grace of God in their hts. & brot. up their
childrn in the nuture & admonitn of ye Ld so
that our late Sr knew the truth & doubtless
felt powerful drawings of divine lore from
her early childhood. When abt. 16 yrs of age,
she came to reside in it sisters house at
that time existing at Littlemoor in the
house now tenanted by Mr Parkinson While
there she grew in grace & in the knowledge
of our Ld. & Savr Jes. Christ, as her occasional
references in conversation, to that period
of her life, as a happy & profitable one, proved.
In the yr 1783 the establishmet at Littlemoor
being broken up, she removed with most of
her companions to our Sisters house here
having spent 8 years in the other institu
tion, & having been, during that time, recd
into the Congn & admitted to the H. Comn. She
did not spend reside (in this Sisters' house) for
the whole of her remaining time, but lived
some years with her late father, nursing him
faithfully until his end, in her native place
she was also a short time at Gumersal - lived with
a friend in a private house in Fulneck
& likewise occupied another house by herself
she was for sometime cook in the Sisters
house, & spent attasctory upwards of 50
years either in this or that at Littlemoor.
The fact, that throughout the whole of her
lengthened pilgrimmage of 4 score years she
maintained a consistent Moravian character
proves that she knew whom she believed,
that her love of Moravians constrained her, & that
she walked humbly with her God. Tho' not
so communicative & open as some followers
of the Lamb on spiritual subjects, her


& tender, as well as her walk conformable to
the gospel, showed that she was in Christ & that
his spirit dwelt in her. Being, moreover of
a very cheerful, lively & amiable disposition
she was generally beloved & respected wherever
she dwelt & by old & young. Her course
temporal & spiritual, was remarkably
smooth & even; she had an excellent con
stitutn & enjoyed very good health not
feeling much even of the infirmities of
old age & being able often to attend the means
of grace in which she delighted finding in
these pastures for her soul. Nor had she
many trials, of an external nature, to
cope with; perhaps the heaviest was the loss
of her little property by the failure of a
bank in Halifax, at a time when such
a calamity must be peculiarly dis
tressing viz. where old-age was approaching
yet she submitted, taking the dispensation
as from the hands of the Lord, & believing that
he would know how to provide for her; nor
was her confidence put to shame; he, who 
clothes the lilies & feeds the ravens, found
her food & raiment & what adds so much
to those blessings a contented & cheerful mind
until he took her to where the Lamb himself
shall feed his sheep & guide them to living
fountains of water. She was attacked
by the then prevailing influenza abt 2
mos ago, & was so much reduced, that she
quite expected to be called home to her
Savr; she recovered, however, once more so
for, as to have almost regained her wanted
strength; but on Friday Jany 20th she
was taken ill of another complaint, which
presently reduced her so rapidly, that no
hopes could be entertained of her recovery. 
Throughout the whole of her illness she was
much pleased to enter into spiritual con
versatn with any spiritual believing friend, always
welcomed her labourer & her minister, 
whom she had known from a little Boy, with
joy & affection & loved to have a prayer offered.


ed up at her side. When it became
evident, that her days were numbered , &
she was asked, if she herself thot our Savr
would at this time take her to himself,
she said at first with the utmost calm
ness, "It is not yet clear to me," but after
a day or two, she said decidedly, "I know
not that I am going," adding that she
knew her Savr, in whom she had so long be
lieved, who had led her from her youth
up & shewn her never varying loving
kindness, could now complete His work
& crown His Grace for that tho' she was
a poor worthless sinner in herself, He had
washed her from sins in his own blood
& would, she assuredly believed, fully pre
pare her, by His spirit for entering into
his kingdom & seeing Him face to face.
She spoke with true humility of herself
as of one who had not a crumb of merit
no, not one righteous work to plead;
but she extolled the all sufficiency, the
grace, the tender loving kindness of her
Savr as her All. A friend observing to her
one day in conversation, "You have
had a smooth & even course thro' time,"
she replied: "Indeed I have, tho' not quite
without troubles, which we must all
share, I have indeed been most justly
led, even to heavy heirs. Her very looks
beamed for the the calm serenity of her
soul, & whenever she was asked if
she still felt our Savrs peace in her
soul, & felt her reply was an empha
tic "Yes!" she stated too, that no doubts
or fears even of a transiently disturbed her
peace & joy in believing. Up to last sa
turday, tho' occasionally rambling she
was able to understand & answer ques
tions, but on Lords day morning all con


sciousness seemed to be gone & she
lay perfectly quiet till abt. 6 o'clock
in the evening when she breathed her
last in the most gentle manner, &
without even a sigh, at the age of 80
years & about 10 weeks. Thus her last
end was peace, & she sleeps in Jesus.


