The Course of Life the girl Mary Clark who departed this Life June 4th 1772
She was born at Pudsey May ye 8th 1761 & Baptiz'd by the Brethren. in
her 8th year she was seiz'd with Hysteric Fits, which continu'd her whole
Life, her Mother asked her of she was not concern'd that the Doctor
could not help her, she reply'd No, she wanted to go Our Saviour. &
when she heard of any of the Srs in the Choir House being going Home she
expresst her concern in these words, now their is another gone & I am
left nevertheless if Our Saviour pleases to keep me still longer am
content. sometimes her Mother was oblig'd to miss the Meetings
on her account tho' with reluctance to both, but she always comforted
her saying dont be uneasy, Our Saviour is with us. - one Day her
Mother perceiving her look very thoughtful asked the reason she reply'd
I have been at the Meeting & Br Talor spoke of the Bread from Heaven
He told the Children if any of them asked their Parents for Bread they
would give it them, but their was another Sort needful, & that Our
Saviour would bestow upon every one who asked Him for it. she adding.
when I go to Our Saviour then I shall get that Bread & never want any
more of yours. another time when she had been reprov'd by her Mistress School Sr
she ran to her Mother requesting her to get her pardon'd saying I can't
sleep if any Body has any thing against me.  her Mistress School Sr & all the
Scholars lov'd her dearly, as she was of a mild temper & very diligent, she


she could not bear to see the Children Idle or lightminded & often reprovd
them for it, 6 weeks before her departure, she was more sorrowful then
ever she had been, & told her Mother the Children in the School had been
reading about the Day of Judgment & I dare not meet Our Saviour, but her
Sorrow was soon turned into Joy, & she said now I know I shall be happy
when ever it pleases Our Saviour to take me & it He thinks best for me to
stay a little longer, am quite resign'd tho' I had rather go to Him a week
before her Departure she fell a sleep in the Meeting & alterd for going
Home. the Day before she went Home she said to her Mother & Sr I love
you both dearly & could like you to go with me to Our Saviour. her
Mother reply'd when He pleases we will go the next Day she expresst her
ardent longing to be at Home, to her Father, & said but I shall soon be
with our Saviour. - just before she drew her last Breath she called
her Sr & bid her look at something pritty, but could not describe it.
she did this 3 times together, then her happy Soul took Flight into
the Arms of her Redeemer, in the 12th year of her Age her Corspe had
a very agreable aspect


