Eliz. Clark
Was born at Northouram in the
Parish of Halifax. My Parents being Disenters, I 
was babtiz'd according to their Profession, as my dr
Mother departed this Life while I was yet very young
my father being left with 4 Children namely one Son
and 3 Daughters, and being strictly religous himself, took all 
possible care to preserve us from the seductions of the
world. this concern of His, togather with my natural thought
full turn of mind led me to an enquirery after future
happiness, even in my Childhood, at which time the fear of
death restrain'd me from injoying my self in the manner
usual to others at that age, contrary to my inclination
which was to divert my thoughts, not being able to
Satisfy my self by those means, as I grew older I took
the resolution to exert the utmost of my power to shake
of my former Convictions, and I found even then that my
best efforts prov'd vain to help my indweling proponsity
to the alurements of this world, having in private
often besought the Lord with tears to save me, and still
found I was as prone as ever to come into the same
Condemration. I pursu'd this resolution as far as I was
able and acepting the invitation of others of my Companions
strove to amuse my thoughts by publick diversions, in
the midst of one of which asemblies, I was so amazingly
struck with Horror & Condemnation, that I was forc'd to
retire, beseeching the Lord to have Mercy upon me I
resolv'd never to come into the like ocasion again.


which I also never did, altho still heart was unconverted
nor had I any desire to engage in Religion, as many of
my aquaintance would have perswaded me, by oppertunity
of Mr Ingham's Preaching who was just then come into these
parts, my reason was to try If I cou'd find no satisfaction
more in the world first; but finding by experience that my
misery pursu'd me more Closely then ever, I gladly made use 
of the offer of the Gospel made by the Brn at their
first coming into Yorkshire. by whose means I found the 
only way to seek true satisfaction, and lamented with many 
tears my former indifference towards my dr Savr who had 
so graciously led me unknown to myself of from all other
pleasures to seek my happiness alone in Him. The Brn
soon began how to Settle Bands among the Young Women
but not having much aquaintance with me thought best
to refer My reception into their society somtime longer.
this Circumstance together with my ardent desire for their
fellowship caus'd me many sorrowfull reflection over
myself for my past neglect. but as they not only
visited those in Conection with them, but those whom
they found adher'd to their Preaching, So among the
rest I was an object of their care, and by ocasion
of a Visit of the Late Sistr Eliz. Clagget. found
freedom to deslose the concern of my heart in a hearty
Conversation with her. She asur'd me that our Savrs
aim was to make me intirely happy, and gave me also
great incouragement to hope for fellowship with His


Congn, this was very Comfortable to me and not long soon after what 
I was admitted to a Band among Sistrs with whom cou'd
converse freely Concerning the situation of my heart, to my
real comfort & blessing. being very much distresd, on
Such an Ocassion, I spoke very openheartadly of my Misery
and concern, when the beforemention'd Sistr in a feeling
Manner display'd the loving Condescension of our dr Savr
in taking upon himself our Guilt & Misery, and by His
Meritorious Suffrings & death making a full atonement
for all Sin, procuring thereby peace and pardon for every
Soul who Concious of their wretchedness turn'd to Him
with a Simple Confidence in his Mercy. at which I
was so deeply affected that retiring in my way home I
earnestly intreated our dr Savr to grant me the happy
experience of His saving power & deliverance from the 
Misery of the Fall & depravity of my own nature & for
his wounds sake to bestow on me that pardon & peace which
he had merited for me, I had not gone far in this situation
of mind before He graciously drew near my heart, and I
was thereby so overpower'd that all my former Misery
Vanish'd, instead of which I felt such Peace & Comfort
that I cou'd scarce recolect how it had been with me, but
went on my way rejoicing in God my Savr who had regarded
my lone estate & had help'd me out of all my distress.
Not long after I was rec'd into the Congn in April
1745 to my great Joy, this abas'd me very much on
account of the unexpected favour it was to me.
but I went on Chearfull in my course till Augst
following, when by opportunity of a visit by some


Brn tho recd Sistrs were spoken with individualy
Concerning the aim & intention of reception. This made
a deep impression on my mind and being apointed to 
be at Pudsy the Sunday following I grew exceedingly
Concerned about my self least I shou'd not answer
the end & aim of my Call to the Congn being this
porplext in my way thither my recourse was to
my dr Savr who Comforted and reasur'd me of His
Love & favour towards me, but upon my arrival at
Pudsy how great was my Surprize, when the Brn
told me that our Savr had directed them to invite
me with them to the Holy Comn, I was at once so
struck with Joy and awe that I scarce knew what
to think, but reflecting on the particular instance
of His feeling nearness on the road, I was incourag'd
to Venture my All upon Him, and injoyed this Highest
good Sacramentally to my great comfort & Blessing
In the year 1746 the Brn began to regulate & Settle
Oeconimys, I got permission to move into the first of 
this regulation at Oxhay's. Where the Manner of 
Life being Quite new to me and expecting in myself
Something extraordinary, I came so far into my
own reason that I gren perplext, and tho more
so as I had gone to the Comn which thro' an 
Ocurence not altogether clear to me, I had also
Misd once


this led me so far that I was at last so distressd I 
knew not what to do. in this porplextity I was determin'd
to take my retreat to my best Freind, with this resolve
If it must be so, to perish at His Feet casting myself
thus upon His Mercy I became from that time more than
ever sencible of the cause of this my dubious state.
and that it proceeded from my own selfworking &
Striving, whereby I cou'd not come thro', as all my happiness
depended on his free grace alone, & not on any thing
of my willing or doing, but simply depending & looking
unto Him in every case & circumstance, this gave me
the Clearest insight into the poor Sinners happiness
I ever had before, & prov'd an abiding blessing to
me thro' all future Viscisitudes I learn'd daily more
to know the poverty of my own heart and the in
Sufficientcy of human reason. and as in the year
1748 I mov'd with other Sistrs to the Little Moore
Oeconimy, and was apointed to Visit the Country Sistrs
it prov'd a blessed school to my own heart, being
Concious of my unfittness & want of experience, which
often drew tears from my eyes but gave rise to many 
tender & Sinnerlike Conversations with my souls Friend
whose Consolation, supported and comforted me on all
ocassions. my Sistrs who with me had the grace to be
Members of the Congn and particularly my elder
Sistr was a comfort to me. but as it pleas'd our
Savr


to call her to himself in the year 1749. which was
a painfull Circumstance to me, as thereby I lost in her
a tender faithfull heart, whose conversation had been
usefull and edifying to me upon many Ocassions, but
as our Savr had aprov'd himself in so many cases
to my heart as able to comfort & Supply all my
nescesitys So I again cast myself upon Him anew
and thereby found a fresh proof of His tenderness &
faithfullness torwards me, his poor and Bashfull one.
In the year 1752, the Sistrs mov'd into their new
Choir House out of the several Oeconimy's, but
as some few still remain'd in the Pudsy-town
Oeconimy I mov'd thither with another Sistr to
inspect the same Oeconimy. but got permission
in a few months to Change with one out of the
Choir House, and came thereby at last to my
long desir'd home, rejoic'd & thankfull for all the
kind & gracious leading & dealings of my Dr Lord
who had brought me thus far


