I Holme.
Life
of the Md. Sr. Sophia Eleanora Dorothea
Clemens, late Leporin, who fell happi
ly asleep in Jesus at Fairfield, Sept. 15
1802, aged 53 years 4 months and 22 days.
compiled from an account left by her in
writing, and from her verbal relation.
She writes:
I will relate some of the many proofs
of Divine Grace which our merciful and 
faithful Savior has shown to me, and will
give a plain account how He in love to
my poor soul, hath delivered it from the 
pit of corruption.
I was born at Nienburg upon the Weser in
the county of Hoya, in the electorate of Hano
ver, on April 27. 1749. My dear parents,
Christian Polycarp Leporin M.D. first Phy
sician of the Hanoverian troops; and Amalia
Hedewig, late de Lubken, gave me a decent
christian education according to their might
at that time. As to the years of my
childhood. I only recollect the following
two remarkable occurrences. The first was
the happy departure of one of my younger


sisters, five years old, who rejoiced in the pleas
ing hope, that, as she expected it, "she should
find her beloved Jesus in Heaven." On this
occasion I felt uncommon happiness & delight
thinking it would be the most blessed event for
me too, if I were translated thither. However
I soon lost the lively impression of this first
perceptible drawing of Grace. The other was
a gracious divine preservation I experienced
walking with the family on the banks of the
Weser, I fell into the river, and having remained
behind the company, was for some minutes in
great jeopardy of life, until my absence was
perceived, my cry heard and a I saved just in right
time.
Till my 11th years I continued
with the family at Nienburg. During this
latter part of the 7 years' war and till 1765
we resided partly at Osnabruk; partly at Ne
den, but chiefly at Hanover. In this gay
capital the splendid scenes of the world be
gan to please me and to attract my atten
tion. And as my father was in high reputa
tion, and his income considerable, especially
during the war, I was enabled to gratify my vain
and worldly propensities. While living here I
was in my 14th year confirmed for the H.C.
Having made my confession of faith, the
Minister, among the rest, addressed me in the


words of the Lord Jesus: "Be thou faithful un
to death; and I will give a crown of life." Rev.
II. 10. This struck me with particular em
phasis, and for a considerable time remaind
impressed on my mind. I formed a resolution
from that day to devote myself in good ear
nest to God, when alas! I knew not yet as
my Savior, and to lead a moral & pious life
which, I supposed, would be well pleasing unto
him. But this good resolution was not long
kept; for seeing I could not perform any
thing in my own strength, I soon gave up the
aim I had proposed to myself to pursue.
A year after my confirmation I partook
of the L. S. for the first time, with very sweet
and comfortable sensations of grace. On this
occasion I renewed my former serious reso
lutions. At the same time I felt an inward
longing after something, then altogether
strange and unknown to me. Afterwards
I clearly understood, that it was the unknown
hand of Him, who loved me with an everlast
ing love and had mercy on me, and who, even
then, began to draw me unto Him with lov
ing kindness. However, I soon lost this fee
ling again, but still remained conscious of


reproofs & warnings, that I must seek some
thing better, than what the world could bestow.
Soon after that I began more & more to relish and
enjoy the worldly pleasures & amusements, and it
become the height of my ambition to please the
world. Hereby nearly all my good imperfections and
resolutions vanished. My gracious Lord indeed pre
served me from those extravagancies, which the
moral world considers as vices; yet I was deeply
sensible that a propensity to all evil lurked
in my soul.
At the pressing instance of our friends, we
left Hanover about this time, and moved a
gain to Nienburg. While residing here my
father was awakened by means of his acquain
tance with persons in connexion with the
Brns Church, especially the late Br. Silberman
of Nienburg and was now seeking his own
salvation. He proposed to read to us the Histo
ry of the Brns Mission in Greenland. This
at first, was quite unbearable to me, in so
much, that I should hardly have prevailed
in myself to continue in the company
had not respect for my father prevented
me from absenting myself. However, I
gradually acquired such relich for it, that
I could scarce hear enough of it. The descrip
tions of the Baptism of converted Greenlanders


in particular, made a very pleasing and deep
impression on my soul; Since that time
I could no longer enjoy the diversions of the
world with rest and ease of mind. My evil
heart frequently revolted at the thought,
that others, at it appeared, could enjoy world
ly pleasures with satisfaction, while they were
embittered to me. Oh! the merciful love
and kindness of the Friend of sinners! These
were incessantly pursuing me, till at length,
in his own good time, his gracious hand found
and apprehended and me. I was passionately
fond of dancing, and many a time, when,
after returning from this vain amuse
ment, I lay in bed, restless and filled with
anxiety, I would ask myself, "whether
that was the satisfaction my soul panted
after?" and the answer uniformly was:
"Ah no! but where is it to be found?"
Then I would strive to divest myself of
worldly thoughts; but the more I strove a
gainst them in my own strength, the 
more I was tormented with them, till, spent
and exhausted, I feel asleep.
About this time it pleased the Lord to make
a happy end of the life & sufferings of my be
loved mother. She was truly faithful to
her knowledge, and died in faith on the all


atoning, sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Her patience
under very grevious bodily afflictions was exem
plary. Her departure proved a hard and pain
ful stroke to me, so that I thought, I should
never lift up my head again. My soul was
afflicted and I grew more & more dissatisfied
with the world and uneasy.
While in the state of mind, a marriage was
proposed to me. Tho', amidst my great un
easiness of mind, I had hitherto fancied that
a proper and advantageous union, like that
now proposed to me, might, perhaps, render
me happy & content; yet the faithful
Savior in mercy so directed my heart, that
I declined the offer. For this I have often
in the sequel, returned my most cordial
thanks to him. The allwise Guide of my
soul convinced me, that this union would
not render me happy; but that it would
hurry me into ruin, and might endanger
the loss of my soul.
My dear father now proposed altering his
state again. This was both unexpected and
disagreeable to his children, especially to me.
But this was exactly the way, chosen by de
vine providence of God, for affecting my
salvation, and that of my sisters, and in
the end, for most happily accomplishing
his precious thoughts of peace towards us.


Our father, who had now obtained a solid
knowledge of himself, and of Jesus Christ, as
his Savior & Redeemer, wishing to enter into
closer union with that people of God, when
friendship & publications had been of real
blessing to him, applied in the year 1776.
to the Direction of the Brns Unity to assist
him in finding a truly religious partner
in life for him. Among other persons of
their acquaintance, they mentioned to him
Sister Charlotte Philippine Stolle of Zittau;
and after sometime the proposal was ac
cepted by both parties. This Sister was then
on a visit in Herrnhut, seeking admission
to the congn which, however, she did not ob
tain, till she had served the will of God in
the union with my father; after whose hap
py departure in 1791. she returned to Herrn
hut as an inhabitant, with a son and a
daughter, the first of their marriage.
To me, being his eldest child, this projected
union of my father with a pious lady of
Moravian sentiments proved extremely dis
agreeable, chiefly because I apprehended
that she would obstruct me in the pursuit
after worldly amusements. For, tho' I found
no rest for my soul in these vanities, I
still loved the lusts of the world and the pride


of life, for as yet I neither knew nor possessed
any thing better in their stead. In my aversion
and ill-will against this marriage I even went
so far, as to conduct myself very improperly
towards my father; but he bore it all with won
derful patience. My behavior in this respect
has in the sequel, been matter of the deepest
regret to me, and with tears I have sought
forgiveness of it, both from our Savior and
from my father, of which I have been kindly
assured. When the time approached, that 
he should set out to meet his bride, I all at once
resolved, or rather, the Lord overruled my
heart so, as to make me resolve, to accom
pany him, which drew tears of joy from
his eyes. I welcomed & received my new mo
ther with filial reverence. Dear Br. Block
and his wife, who were than the labours of the
Brns Society in these parts, kindley conducted
her to us. At the very first sight of these per
sons, I felt an uncommonly tender love and
attachment to them, and the enmity I had
shortly before harboured against the Bre
thren in general vanished. I could hardly con
ceive what was passing within me, and I did
nothing but weep, not indeed tears of bitter
ness; but of heartfelt pleasure & satisfaction.
The next day the marriage was solemnized


at our own house, in stillness and with a hap
py feeling. Soon after our mother began to
give as a lively & pleasing description of Herrn
hut, and of the regulations of the congn., to
gether with an account of her own very agree
able stay there. I was much struck with this
relation, and it made me sigh: "Oh, that I were
in the same happy care with these people! But
(thought I) this can never be my lot; for I am
too bad and too depraved." However, I felt such
a fervent love to my stepmother, that I could
not forgive myself for having shewn so great
an aversion to her union with my father.
The sweet peace, which, in those days, reigned
in our family, overcame us all, and raised
in us sensations of so pleasing nature as
we had been utter strangers to before. This
prepared the way for the blessed scene, which
was now to ensue. About a fortight af
ter this, a Brother from the town of Vilsen,
28 engl. miles distant from Nienburg, whose
name was Klager, a captain of the militia
paid us a visit with a view to welcome our
stepmother. This gentleman had for some
years been in brotherly connection with my
father; but I had hitherto strangely disre


garded him. Now I perceived something ex
traordinary in his looks & whole deportment
which attracted my eager attention. He was
of a still & meek carriage; but his few words
impressed me much, being attended with an
evident unction. After dinner we all re
paired to our garden within the precincts
of the town. While standing around him in
one of the walks, and having a sweet prejudg-
ment of what afterwards happened, that dear
and worthy man of God began, out of the abun
dance of his heart, to address us on the infinite
love of God to poor sinners, revealed in Christ
Jesus. He assured us, that we all, not one ex
cepted, and just as we were, might draw near
to the sinners' friend. This penetrated my
soul like lightning, and was exactly that,
which best most suited my case; for I could not
divest myself of the persuasion, that I had been
too great a sinner to hope for pardon. On
this account it seemed, as if ever word he
addressed to the whole company, was particu
larly directed to me. Perceiving my feelings,
he turned himself to me, and among other
texts of Scripture dwelt more at large upon
the following: "And this is life eternal, that
they might know thee, the only true God, and
Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." John XVII. 3.
These words I had frequently heard without


impression, but now I felt them as light and 
power divine. He then repeated a verse (found
in the Brns german hymn book No 561. v.3) which
served beautifully to illustrate and strengthen
his evangelical address, and of which the fol
lowing, is as far as possible a literal translation:
"The voice of the blood, Lord, which flowed from thee,
On each step sounded in my ears
The torrents of tears, which thou shedest for me,
Call'd nor for vengeance nor for wrath;
No Grace & love in thy looks did appear,
And these even now my heart & mind cheer.
Thy hands for me pierced, by faith, I embrace,
Which lead me, a sinner, till finishd my race."
This verse remained impressive to us all, and
was always a favourite one of mind. On this
account it gave me, in the sequel, singular
pleasure, to be informed by my husband, that
his late father was the author of it.
This was the day, and this the hour of Salvation
for me, in which the Lord opened my heart.
I burst into a flood of tears. And now, tur
ning my eyes away from men, I left them
up to heaven, knowing I had my best friend
there. To him, I sent my sighs: "And is there
indeed grace for me wretched sinner? Will
the Savior of sinners, in truth, accept even
me, bad as I am?" On this occasion I
enjoyed such real inward happiness, as tho'


I were already in Heaven. Then it was, that
the Reconciler of my sins manifested him
self in me as my Savior indeed. O happy
day! O inestimable hour of grace! When
shall I find words sufficiently to extol the
mercy of my gracious Lord, shown to me,
when He, in love to my soul, delivered it
from the pit of corruption, casting all my
sins behind his back. Yes, it is time, He
hath had mercy on me, the poorest of the
poor, and has kindly led me to the knowledge
of salvation in himself alone.
"Thousand, thousand thanks to thee
Dearest Lord, forever be!"
But this was not to me alone a day of
salvation. Thanks be to his free electing
grace! Our whole family, consisting of my
parents, two younger sisters, a brother and
myself were more or less benefited by this
powerful visitation of grace. We now
walked up & down in the garden, each alone,
in silent meditations. When afterwards we
again not in the arbour, I could not refrain
from addressing our dear Brother Klager
and from exclaiming with rapturous joy:
"You are indeed a messenger of peace,
sent to us from God!" However, soon after
my misery recurred again to my mind
with such force, that I could not help cry


ing out: "But I have sinned too grievously!"
He attempted to comfort me, saying: "I had
done it thro' ignorance, and that God winked
at the times of this ignorance." Altho' in
general it was true, that I had done many
things ignorantly; yet I was conscious, that
I had too often resisted the Spirit of God, and
acted against his reproofs in my conscience.
When, after this most happy event, I sought
a solitary place, in order to weep my fill
at the feet of my merciful Savior, I was
so overcome by his gracious presence, that
I felt him, as it were, to be especially
my Savior. I was now effectually convin
ced, that it was this, after which my poor
distressed soul had so long panted. For
three successive days I was unutterably
happy, as my faithful Savior revealed
himself more & more to me as my blee
ding Reconciler, and his Holy Spirit set
him forth before my eyes of faith, in
the most lively colours, as crucified, suf
fering, bleeding & dying for me, in so much
that I could hardly think of eating, drink
ing or sleeping. But now the enemy of my
happiness endeavoured, to the utmost of his
power and malice, to persuade me, that the
great change, affected in me, had been mere


imagination. However, the H. Spirit so migh
tily convinced me of that grace& truth, which
I had acknowledged and now enjoyed, that
ever since and to this day, no doubt remai
ned on my mind: and for the future I rely
on his faithfulness. Nevertheless, when I
again began to feel my innate depravity,
I became cast down & sorely distressed, hav
ing not as yet learned to cleave constantly,
with implicit faith, as a poor and needy cres
ture, to Jesus the Sinners' friend. However,
he never failed to relieve and set me a
gain at liberty.
Some weeks after this I & my two sisters
had the pleasure, to receive an affectio
nate letter from Mr. Klager. He referred
us to that happy experience, with which we
had been favoured, and to which, our Savior,
thro' mercy, had made him instrumental;
but at the same time emphatically repre
sented to us, that He, who had mercy on us,
was now intent upon delivering us entire
ly from this present evil world and all its
ways, in which we had before been deeply
implicated. The contents of this letter,
which never left my heart & memory, tho'
I have lost the letter itself, served me as a power
ful encouragment to faithfulness and 
perseverance in prayer. In the strength of


the Lord I took the firm resolution, not to
rest till I had obtained an assurance of
my full emancipation from all connexion
and entanglement with the world & what is in it.
This was graciously granted me, and I en
joyed a foretaste of heaven, having my affec
tions set on things above, and ardently long
ing to be at home with my beloved Savior.
Having answered the letter we had received
from our friend, I soon got his very com
forting and instructive reply. As I have still
preserved the same, I think it will not be
improper to insert an extract from it here.
It is as follows.
Vilsen Jan. 31. 1778.
"In our incomparable Savior heartily
beloved Sister,
I desire to magnify our good Lord for
all his loving kindnesses bestowed on us, the
worthless, but highly favoured objects of his
love & mercy, on your whole house, and on
yourself especially. My heart is filled
with joy and peace on account of it, and I
frequently call on you in spirit in these
words. "Blessed are they which are called
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb!
The communion and converse with our Lord Savi
or will abundantly make up to you for


all those things, which are called pleasures in
the world. One smile of grace will now ap
pear to you of infinitely greater value, than
all earthly friendship and grandeur.
Those vicissitudes which we experience in
the happy communion with our Savior, ori
ginate in this, that we do not at all times
think him so indispensible to us, as the
air which we breathe, and that consequently
our eyes of faith are not constantly fixed
upon him and his cross. In this case the H.
Spirit is so faithful as to reprove us for
it, and to let our souls perceive something
whereby we become conscious, that we do not
live in our proper element. Amidst the
exercise of true faithfulness, and amidst
our sincere intention to keep ourselves un
spotted from the world, we are in danger
of falling into an error being apt to for
get, the we must still, at all times, ap
pear before our Savior as needy sinners.
But as soon as we have the happiness of
acknowledging in his light, our real state,
and are led back to that blessed beginning
of our confidence, which we must hold
fast to the end, he owns us again as his.
Dear & precious as the Brethren & Sisters 
are and ought to be to us, yet our Savior will
not bear it that we should expect from
them that comfort & revival of our hearts


which he has reserved to himself, to grant
us according to our need. This was probably
the reason, that, during the last visit of the 
labourers of this district; you have been dis
appointed in your sanguine expectations,
when, as you lament, your heart has been
as it were shut up, so that you could not
unbosom yourself to them. Another time
you may reap much blessing from their
visit. But, consider, what blessed fruits our
Savior is able to produce from those very
things, which are causes of grief to us.
In this instance, the effect of your disap
pointment was, that you was enabled
or driven by necessity, to impart the dis
stress of your soul to your own Sister, Anna,
whereby you felt her sympathizing love
towards you, in her comforting reply to
your complaints. Thus kindly our Savi
or deals with is, When the upright and un
reserved conduct towards one another, in
which he delights, cannot be attained by
other means, he renders even painful
necessity subservient to it, thus making
the distress of one a fellowship concern
and subject of prayer of all the rest.
Now I wish nothing more than that such


happy interviews may encourage you to
make a covenant with our Savior and each
other, and that this may be maintained
firm thro' his grace, and simplicity and up
rightness of heart on your part; this would
prove the means of forming a small
but happy family of Virgins in your
house.
My wife joins me in love to
you all, and we commend you to the
faithful heart of Jesus, in whose love
I remain your affectionate Br. Klager." *
Directly after I had obtained mercy it was made
clear to me, that I had a divine calling given me
to belong to the Church of the Brethren, and I
became more fully convinced, that the connexion
with the world, as such, would no longer suit me.
But how the separation from the latter, and
* In the year 1806, she had the pleasure in a Report
of Br. I. G. Erxleben, visiting in those parts, to find
an account of Br. Klager's happy departure
at Vilsen in 1796. and an excellent testi
mony of his character and of his faithful
ness in our Lord's service, during his acquain
tance with the Brethren of thirty years
continuance, to the end of his road.
A note by her husband.


the union with the former could be affected,
this I indeed was not able to devine, but with,
filial confidence committed it to my dear Sa
vior, persuaded that He would find ways & means
to bring it to bear. Amid all the trials and 
temptations in my way, He maintained in
me this mind, granted me thro' mercy. To
be and remain His own. At length, however,
I could wait no longer, and my two Sisters be
ing of the same mind with me, we ventured
in a conversation with our father, to disclose
to him the conviction of our hearts, that we
were called to the Brns Church, according
to our Lord's election of Grace. This decla
ration was indeed, not altogether unexpec
ted to him, still he seemed surprised and it
caused him some pain, for he loved us most
affectionately, and next to his private in
tercourse with our Savior, felt most happy
in our company. He prudently and empha
tically represented to us the great difficul
ties attending the execution of our purpose,
more particularly with regard to the man
ner of living in a Sisters house, which was
quite unusual to us; he, therefore, recom
mended very mature consideration. We left


him cast down and distressed; yet could not do
any thing but sigh: "Ah! that we might once
be so happy as to live among children of God."
Agreeably to our fathers' advice, we endeavou
red to consider & weigh all his arguments with 
due attention: but we either did not see them
in the same light & force as he, or else the
principle within us preponderated and expelled
all other considerations. We thought: "We can
not be happy in any other situation; we
are jealous over ourselves, having been much
loved and caressed by the world, and living in
constant danger to be again carried away by
the stream; Oh could we but escape and be
sheltered in a place of safety!" And, behold
what happened. Our father going out to
attend his patients, could not get rid of per
plexing thoughts, in consequence of our con
versation with him, and his uneasiness in
creasing, he was forced to return. He repaired
to our mother and said: "I clearly perceive
my children are no longer for the world; 
I am resolved to permit them to go on a
visit to the congn of the Brn nearest to us."
Upon this he recovered his usual tranquil
lity of mind and visited his patients. Our
mother hastened to impart this joyful


news to us. "Oh! /thought I/" let me but come
to a congn on a visit, I shall certainly never
return." On my knees I offered my warmest
thanks to my dear Savior, for his kind inter
position: for it was evident that his secret
hand directed this affair. Now my sisters
and I lost no time in preparing for the
journey to visit the nearest congn, which
Gnadau, in the County of Barby in 
Saxony. Br. Eustache Schuler, being sent
by the congn to visit in these parts, happe
ned to be at Nienburg at this juncture;
and being made acquainted with our innermost
wishes, took an opportunity to put the quest
ion to our father, "whether, in case we should
be so pleased with our visit, as to desire to
live in the settlement, he would consent
to our stay and help to provide for our nec
essary maintenance." To this he im
mediately answered with a sound Yes;
which indeed was an unexpected and asto
nishing resolution both to himself and us,
considering his great attachment to us, for
hitherto, he could hardly ever prevail on him
self to suffer any one of us to leave him
but for a short time. But my dear fa
ther knew and loved our Savior with all his


heart, and was convinced, that with a good & quiet
conscience, he durst not prefer his personal
satisfaction, to the real happiness and prospe
rity of his children. Conscious that his dispo
sition was rather changeable, he now even haste
ned our departure. On his side the separation
was exceedingly painful and moving. And we
should have been very glad, if our taking
leave of our numerous acquaintances could
have been dispensed with. Our removal
caused a great noise, and a variety of judg
ments were passed upon it according to the
various views in which it was considered. Our
Minister gravely represented to us, /what we
well knew before/? That there was no need
of shutting ourselves up in a nunnery, as he
called the Sistershouse in order to serve God and
be happy. Most of our former friends,
/now enemies for the gospels sake/ in whose
company & diversions, we had acted such a
conspicuous part, a few years ago, now hin
ted plainly enough, that we had imbibed new
fanatical doctrines, whereby we had become
melancholy & misanthropes, or even deran
ged in the head. In general people surmised
that we should not hold it out long in a
congn but soon return to the fleshpots of Egypt.
Some, however, who knew and acknowledged


better things, wondered at our resolution, streng
thened our trust in God, and accompanied
us with their last wishes and prayers. For my 
own person I was inexpressibly glad & thank
ful, soon to find myself in a place and si
tuation, where I hoped, with certainty of me
?? to attain to complete tranquillity of
mind. For, tho' I had indeed found rest for
my soul in Jesus, yet in my present si
tuation, I was exposed to disipations, which
disturbed and afflicted me. In other respect
I was fully satisfied, that our Savior is not
confined to certain places, to make us par
takers of himself.
I did not then feel
much of the pain of taking leave, wholly
& solely intent on enjoying undisturbed happi
ness and of spending day & night in commu
nion with Jesus, the Friend & Beloved of my soul.
And here I may add my grateful attestation
that amidst all the trials, hardships & vicisi
tudes, I experienced in the sequel. He has never
put my hope and confidence in him to shame.
We left our native place on June 25. 1778.
accompanied by our brother, and after a plea
sant journey, arrived the 29th, in Gnadau
glad & thankful to be in our new home,
for as such we regarded it in confident hope.
At the last inn on the road, our brother


was much cast down at the thought, that he
must now soon part with us; which could
not but affect us all. But having continued
with in a few days at Gnadau he was so char
med with the place and its inhabitants, that
he left us there with great satisfaction.
I was most heartily thankful to my good
Lord, that He had now placed me where I had
so long desired to live, confident that, "the
lines would fall unto me in this pleasant
place." The serene and peaceful look of
the Brethren & Sisters bespoke an only cheer
ful heart, and raised my desire to enjoy
the same happiness. We first lodged with
a family in the place near the Sistershouse.
Br. Renatus van Laes and his wife, at that
time the first labourers of this congn by
their faithful care & attention supplied
to us the place as parents, most kindly as
sisting us with advice and help. The Single
Sisters, whom we often visited, likewise
shewed us much friendship and cordiality.
And the worthy Elders Confc of the Unity,
then resident Barby near Gnadau, took
very kind notice of us, and of our apparent
ly odd undertaking, in which they acknow
ledged we had acted from a faithful and up
right mind. Neither did they neglect to
take our forvent desire, to stay in Gnadau


into consideration before the Lord, and al
ready in the fifth with of our visit on July 30
my Sister Anne and I obtained permission
to live in Gnadau. Our younger sister,
Charlotte, had leave given her, to move, as
a guest, with us into the Sisters house on the
1st of August. About half a year after
she also was admitted an inhabitant of
the place. We did not delay mentioning
this joyful news to our father, who in a
letter of August 16. expressed himself very 
thankful for it; tho' he seemed at first,
a little uneasy, fearing we might feel a
want of accustomed conveniences. For, as
I had informed of the satisfaction it gave
me to live in the company of ten Sisters 
in one room, he said in his reply, addressing
himself to me in particular: "I hope in
deed that they will bear with you, as you
write: but, my poor dear child, you will
in your turn, have also to bear with them.
As to the main point, I trust, you are all
thro' our Saviors grace, fully agreed; but
still 11 persons have so many different
way and habits, and they all can but by
degrees, learn to suit themselves to each
other, according to their various tempers.


However, you may believe me, my dear children
that the whole event, and your admission to a
congn of the Brn is a subject of the utmost
importance to me, for which with I most cordially
and with tears of love, abasement & joy, thank
our Savior. May He, who has had mercy on
you, continue to bless and grant you the
enjoyment of all that happiness, which
he intends for you, which may be possessed
more undisturbedly in one of his congns
than in the bustle of the world. Yesterday
I had a letter from Br. Klager. He sends
most affectionate salutations, astonished
at the great things the Lord has done for
you, and thankful for your lot of Grace.
May the Lord, our Savior, be your Help; your
strength, your Guardian, your All."
On Sept. 1. he wrote to me in particular, as
follows:
My any thousand fervent thanks
be given to our faithful, who has so gra
ciously regarded us in our low estate, and
bestowed such mercy and lovingkindness
on you, and thereby on me! Ah, who
must not in this instance, most clearly
discover what the power of his atoning
death & blood can effect in poor sinners.
It abases, it creates anew, it sanctifies
all that is sprinkled with this precious blood.


O my dear child, I never read your letters
without tears of joy and gratitude. Your
last of Aug. 26. has been more particular
ly agreeable and joyful to me, since I per
ceive, that you are strongly impressed with
a grateful sense of your own happiness
and precious lot, and of its promised increase.
Your Savior and mine will never and in no
will, cast out any sinner, who comes to him
with faith & prayer. Be of good cheer, and 
learn daily to see read your election of Grace
secure in his wounds; for he has graven you
upon the palms of his hands. The Lord,
who called you out of the world to his congn.
and enrolled you among his followers
depend upon it, will happily accomplish
all his thoughts of peace towards you."
I cannot omit noticing, the Daily Words
for the Brns' Congns in which fell upon the
before mentioned days, so remarkable to
me, as I found them very appropriate.
The day we left Nienburg and the world (in
the scripture sense) the Daily Word was:
"Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from
Him cometh my salvation. Ps. 62.1.
When His hours strikes for relieving,
Help breaks forth amazingly."
On the day we arrived in Gnadau, we had
this prayer put into our hearts:


"O God, plead thine own course. Ps. 74.22.
The cause is thine, Lord Jesus Christ,
The honour and disgrace."
The day on which our permission to live in
Gnadau was fixed, the D.W. was:
"Great peace have they which love thy law;
and nothing shall offend them. Ps.119. 165.
Lord, with thy right hand lead us now
Thro' ev'ry future measure
And worthy of thy grace, that thou
For thy care, mayst have pleasure."
And on the day when we moved into the Sis
ers' house, our hearts could joyfully attest:
"The Lord has done great things for us,
whereof we are glad. Ps. 126. 3.
Thy wonders, Lord, our admiration raise,
But that which prompts us to thy highest praise,
Melts us in tears of love, at thy pierc'd feet,
Is thy dire passions contemplation sweet."
My faithful Savior began now, by his Ho
ly Spirit, to teach me many things; and I
soon perceived, that I had still much to learn.
I was alarmed at myself, when I discovered
that the impression of my Saviors' suffer
ings and death for me, was no more so live
ly as it had been at the time when I found
favour in his sight, and immediately after
that period; and without the perceptible
feeling of this I neither could nor would


be contents and happy. Yet when the Spirit
of God shewed to me the depth of my innate
corruption, I was ready to faint; for hitherto
I was in a great measure unacquainted with
the real condition of fallen human nature,
and I even imagined I possessed some good
ness & righteousness of my own. As I had
been mercifully preserved, by restraining
grace, from falling into heinous sins, I had
perversely cherished a conceit of being better
than others. But now seeing myself, by
the light of the H. Spirit, in the most abo
minable colours, I could hardly be persua
ded, that any one could be so bad and depra
ved as myself. At first I felt ashamed to
appear before God and men as I was: but our
Savior soon granted me the grace, that I could
frankly disclose my situation to others more
experienced than myself. I met with faith
ful Sisters, who kindly sympathized with me,
and on all occasions lovingly encouraged me,
to cast myself at the feet of Jesus with
supplications for daily renewed mercy. This
advice I found good and salutary then wit
nessing the rich consolations of the friend


of sinners. With regard to my external
support and maintenance, I had indeed to
make some experiences new & strange to me
especially during the first year; tho' I my
father occasionally assisted me, so that
with industry and frugal management
I made my way tolerably well. But all
these trials had no other influence on
my course, than to exercise and ground me
more and more in filial confidence in the
kind providence of my heavenly Father.
Having now spent upwards of half a year
in the Sisters house, upon the whole in a hap
py manner, tho' sometimes assailed by le
gal fears, I ventured to mention my ar
dent desire after reception into the congn
altho' I felt myself extremely unworthy
of such a favour. And behold, ere I
thought it, I obtained this favour pri
veledge, viz. on Easter monday Apr. 5. 1779.
 My Sister Anne was received at the same
time with me, which added greatly to my
happiness. Never shall I forget this
day of blessing.
After this I proceeded for sometime in


a cheerful & happy frame of mind. But
my faithful Savior had yet many things
to say to me, which, he knew, I could not
have borne hitherto. Often did I think
in my folly: "Ah! I would much ra
ther chose to become at once thoroughly
acquainted with myself, than by slow
degrees, and then to be happy forever,
and without any interruption." Nay,
my mind at times revolted at the feeling
of my continuing misery & sinfulness,
and at the thought, that I should never
do any thing but cleave, day by day, as
a poor indigent creature to Him, who a
lone could help me. For, hitherto, I had
not practically learned the hidden myste
ry of a poor sinner's living by free
grace alone. But now I began to
discover, that if the H. Spirit had suffe
red me to see my deep depravity all at
once, it would have been too much for
me to bear.
Sometime after I had the joy to see my
younger sister, Charlotte also received


into the congn. But now a new trial came up
on me. I had not only to feel some pain at
seeing both my sisters, one after another, pre
ferred before me, as Candidates for the H.C.
but also to discover in my wicked heart
(I confess it with shame) such indignation
against the younger of them, that I could
hardly look friendly at her. However, what
could I do, were on this unhappy condition
but apply to my merciful Lord? Him,
I therefore, humbly entreated to reveal to me
what was the cause of my being thus put back
for I was well assured, it could not have
happened without a sufficient reason. He
graciously pointed out to me, that my shame
ful self love, fancying myself better than
others, occasioned my present distress.
No sooner had he obtained his aim in bring
ing me to an acknowledgment of my sinful
presumption, which I confessed with shame
and many tears; than I came again into
clearness, and enjoyed as much happiness as
before, yea even more. Being hereby made
willing, with childlike resignation to com
mit my whole way to his faithful hands,
without presuming to dictate to him, I obtai
ned, rather unexpectedly, on the 6th of Nov.


permission to be spectator at the H.C. for the 
first time. The D.W. was remarkable to me:
"My times are in thy hand. Ps. 31.15.
Teach me their importance great,
Their completely measur'd state
Their degrees, which are but known to thee."
And at the very next sacrament I had the 
favour, still more unlooked for, to be specta
tor for the last thus time, and thus to partake
of this divine repast; for the first time with
the Brns' congn on New years day 1780.*
About this period an ardent desire was exci
ted in me powerfully to experience the 
sprinkling of my heart a conscience with
the precious atoning blood of my dear Lord.
And, to his praise, I must confess, that
I often felt, as if standing at the foot of
his cross, while streams of grace were flow
ing over me. How I dreaded nothing so
much, as coldness to his merits & death.
Having attained to the highest good in the 
Lord's Supper, I was afraid, lest I should sit
* Her husband subjoins this remark:
Modesty prevented her from adding, that
she still attained to this favour sooner
than her Sisters.


down satisfied with this is an undone manner.
But He was so faithful, that he did not suffer
my soul to be at rest, unless I enjoyed his pre
sence and communion. Indeed, at that time
I never could pass a day, without an interview
with Him, when I made my Confident. To
this I was aided both by love and real need,
for it was made clear to me, that should he
withdraw his gracious hand, I might still fall
into sin and shame. But ah! what comfort
did I find in this, that I could always have
free access to him with all my misery: so
that now, I would not, for all the world,
have been left without a deep sence of my
poverty, indigence and sinfulness, because
without such a feeling I should not have
found such great need of the Savior of sinners.
However, to be truly delivered from the power
of sin and from all consenting to thou will,
to which I felt my depraved nature prone,
this I have a right, thro' grace, both to desire
and to expect.
I will still notice, in this place, that the
Memoirs of the late Sr. Louisa de Hayn,
who departed in August 1782 proved of sin
gular benefit to me, quickening my de
sire to become One Spirit with my dear
Lord and Savior.


During my abode in the Sisters' house at
Gnadau I had the favour to begin, in my
small degree, to serve our Savior, first in
the capacity of joint overseer in a room
of sisters, and then in the inspection of
the girls; as also by being voted a member
of the congn council. This instance of
the love and confidence of the sisters, was
very remarkable and precious to me.
Having now lived nearly six years in this
dear family, a proposal was unexpected
ly made to me, on Apr. 2. 1784. to enter
into the married state with Br. Christian
Gottfried Clemens, then Assistant in the 
ministry of the congn at Gnadenfrey in
Silesia. Being persuaded, that it was the
gracious will of the Lord, to whom I wished
to be wholly devoted, I accepted the propo
sal, in the firm confidence to Him, that
he had prepared and appointed for me a
brother, whose heart was truly given up
unto Him. And I must confess, that he
has not put my hope and trust in his fi
delity to shame.
I closed my happy abode at Gnadau with
the celebration of the S. Sisters' festival,
which, ever since my first being joined


to them, had each time proved a real cove
nant day to me, and left that dear place
in May 5th. I travelled by way of Bar
by & Kleinwelke to Herrnhut, in compa
ny of some Sisters, conducted by Br. Zemby
who was well acquainted with my future
husband, having been one of his teachers.
After a short stay at Herrnhut, I procee
ded to Gradenfrey berg, where my future bro
ther in law, Dr. Gottlieb Theodore Clemens
and his wife and children received me
most cordially. May 19. I arrived at
Gnadenfrey, and the next day, being the
memorial of our Lord's Ascension, I gave
the above mentioned Brother a solemn
promise of marriage, in the presence of
some friends. We were married on the
1st of June, in presence of that nume
rous congn by Br. Sternberg, who, on
this occasion, delivered a very impressive
discourse on the Text of the day: "The
very God of peace sanctify you wholly."
My husband & I, with united fervour de
dlcated our poor, but willing services, to
our gracious Lord and his congn accor
ding to his good pleasure.


If I now, after a lapse of 15 years in this
state, take a review of this period, and en
quire, How I have recd & improved the grace
of my faithful Savior, which to has so rich
ly bestowed upon me; and whether I have
lived to his joy & honour? I stand ashamed
of myself, and blushing before him; but
at the same time, I rejoiced in God my
Savior, and comfortably enjoy his daily
and abundant forgiveness.
Her husband subjoins the following com
pletion of these memoirs.
With the above sentence my late wife clo
sed the account of her life in the year 1799.
while residing at Bristoll.
Besides my office in the ministry of the Word
at Gnadenfrey, we were jointly favoured to
serve our Lord in assisting at the usual
speaking before the H.C. with the Brn. &
Sr. of the numerous married choir of that
congn. July 15. 1785. she was accepted an
Accoluth in the Elders conference of the place,
of which she sometime before had become
a member. Our abode here lasted 4 1/2 years.
From December 1787, till after the Synod
in 1789, we served the congn at Nisky in


the same manner. In September 1789 she was
with me appointed to the care of the Md. Brn
& Srs at Ebersdorf. But in this dear congn
in which we have enjoyed much grace and mu
tual love & confidence, we had continued but
three quarters of a year, when in July 1790
we were called to labour in a field entirely
new to her, namely at Dublin in Ireland.
Her health, which during the first four
years after our union, had appeared very
good & durable, all at once suffered a severe
shock in April 1788 at Nisky, by which
her constitution was weakened & broken to
such a degree, that during the remaining
fourteen years of her life she scarcely spent
one day in perfect health. While at Ebers
dorf she was afflicted with a pleurisy fever,
from which she, however, recovered, and for
a while even seemed to mend in her health.
On our journey from Ebersdorf to Ham
burg, on our way to Dublin, we had the great
satisfaction to see her dear, now aged and in
firm father, and likewise her stepmother
and their son and daughter. We spent near
ly two weeks with them in the place of her
nativity. It was exceedingly pleasing and
edifying to hear the lips & heart of her
aged father overflowing with praise and


thanksgiving for the mercy and goodness
of God, bestowed on him and his family. He
saw most clearly that all, even these appa
rently hard dealings of our good & wise Lord
which he had experienced, were proofs of
everlasting love. The solid happiness
and peace of mind, so conspicuous in his
daughter, raised the admiration of some
of her former acquaintances, and left
lovely & pleasing impressions.*
In prosecuting our journey to Dublin, 
she had the pleasure to see the Brns congns
at Neudietendorf in Germany, at London,
Okbrook and Fairfield in England. On
the 13th of August, being then at Altona,
we had an unspeakably blessed enjoy
ment of the H.C., with Br. & Sr. Bush, the 
labourers of the Brns Society in that town.
This day of blessing the Lord himself
had made unto us, contrary to all our ex
*Her father finished his happy race about
8 months after this visit March. 23. 1791
on which day 15 years before, my fa
ther had departed this life at Herrn
hut.


pectation; for we had already been on board
our ship some days, and were only detained
by contrary wind, till we had partaken of
this strenthening repast, and kept a
love feast with our Brethren & Sisters.
At Sea between Cuxhaven and London,
we experienced a striking preservation
during a violent tempest of thunder and
lightning. And in the Irish Channel
we had to weather a hard storm for up
wards of fifty hours, during which three
ships were wrecked, two of them before our
eyes, without any possibility of help, or
of saving one soul on board. On the
third evening our Captain asked us, whether
we would advise him to put back to Liver
pool, as all the other vessels had done, 
who had escaped? Having answered him
in the affirmative, he expressed his utmost
apprehension of our safety for the ensuing
night, the packet boat being so much da
maged, as to be nearly unmanageable;
and before the next morning he could not
think of attempting the return. Upon
hearing this we felt indeed human weak
ness and some anxiety; but committed
our case, with childlike resignation,
into the hands of our mighty & faithful Lord.


We then spent sometime in cordial con
versation, and in singing together; at which
it was remarkable to me, that the verses,
begun by her, treated all of the love of Jesus
and the joyful hope of seeing him face to face.
Sleep then closed by my eyes, which bene
fit was but seldom enjoyed by her at Sea.
The next morning we found ourselves
delivered from dismal danger, safe and
thankful on shore in Liverpool. The
day after we set sail again in another pac
ket, and after a very good passage of 25
hours, arrived safe and well at Dublin.
It was about the autumnal equinox.
Having related some of the gracious deliveran
ces experienced by us at Sea, I will add another
instance of the wonderful help of our God, with
which we were favoured on Land. It was the fol
lowing: After my recovery from a severe fit
of illness, with which I was afflicted while
residing at Gnadenfrey, we, on Nov. 1. 1785.
took an airing in a chaise. On the road
the driver, having lost the reins, was thrown
off his seat and run over by the wheels, tho'
without being materially hurt. Before he 
could recover himself the horses offered


to run away. Seeing no other way of extri
cating ourselves from this imminent danger,
I resolved, after commending my life to its
mighty Preserver to leap out of the chaise.
This I effected with safety. But before I
could come to my wife's assistance, as
the horses were now running faster, I saw
with astonishment, that she likewise ven
tured to throw herself out and happily su
ceeded in the attempt. Till then the horses,
as it were, had been kept in by an invisible
hand, but now they ran set off with great
impetuosity, and leaving the road, to a
void a considerable declivity, turned into
a fallow field, where they were stopped by
a man from an adjoining village. The
chaise was not overturned, so that, had it
not been for strong apprehensions of dan
ger, we might have kept our seats. We
considered ourselves as anew given to each other
in the Lord, and with tears of gratitude and
joy presenting ourselves to him as living sa
crifices. In all these and other trials,
but more especially in cares and distres
ses of soul, her childlike and firm confi
dence in our Lord and in his unchangeable
love and faithfulness, has often proved a
comfort and encouragement to me.


We spent 4 years and some months in
the service of Dublin congn. She always
retained a grateful remembrance of the 
love and friendship she enjoyed here, as it pro
ved a great support to her in this new and 
unaccustomed way of life, and in learn
ing a new language.
Towards the end of November 1794, we set
out for our new station at Bristoll; which
congn we had the favor to serve upwards
of five years. As this was the last place,
in which she was still active, I cannot omit
observing, what may be asserted with truth,
that she has shewn love, faithfulness and 
candour in the execution of her office. De
viations from our Lords mind and our
principles and rules; a desire after the 
pleasures & vanities of the world, from the
bewitching influence of which she felt her
self resined by the mighty grace of God; and 
an uncharitable and censorious spirit, were
considered by her as inconsistent with our high
and heavenly calling, and were therefore
abhorred. It must be confessed, that,
when she at times, discovered more of such
blemishes than she had strength to bear


she was in danger of losing all courage, and not
only to grieve too much for the affliction of Jo
seph, but to think the hurts almost incurable.
On the contrary, nothing yeilded her more
real joy, than when she perceived in anyone
a faithful mind and tender attachment
to our Savior; for this was the element, in
which she herself lived, since she had tasted
that He is good and gracious. Whenever she
found herself deficient in this point, she
could not be comforted, till she was assured
of his forgiveness by a new smile of grace.
She was solidly acquainted with herself, and 
was often so painfully sensible of her own
imperfections and mistakes, that she regarded
herself the most unworthy of his children, asto
nished at his mercy, longsuffering & patience.
The above mentioned loss of her health and
strength rendered those bodily exertions, which
the service of a city congn. requires, more
and more difficult; and since she could not
be content with so very defective a perfor
mance of her duty, we found ourselves im
pelled, some years ago, to apply to the Uni
ty's Elders Conference for her dismission
from all labor and personal activity in
the Lord's course. This step drew many
tears of pain, and grief from her eyes, for
next to her own happiness, she regarded it
the highest favor to be counted worthy, in
her small measure, to serve that faithful 


Savior, who laboured hard and even laid down his
life for her. At times she was almost incon
solable on this account, and would accuse her
self of not having been faithful enough, and 
of having grieved our Savior by despondency,
or at least by want of courage in his service,
by which he had been obliged to exercise this
severe chastisement upon her. Moreover, she 
was much pained to think, that I might
perhaps, on her account, lose all opportu
nity of being active in the Lord's vineyard.
Notwithstanding all this, we could, in con
science, do no other, than seek our dismis
sion from serving any congn in our present
capacity. We were, from time to time,
comforted in a most loving manner, and
directed to have patience, till an opening
would be made, for my being otherwise em
ployed. A friendly letter from our beloved
late Brother Gregor afforded us much com
fort and encouragement.
Towards the close of the year 1799, the Lord
so ordered things, that I was appointed Minister
of the congn. in Fairfield, where the active
services of my wife among the Sisters were
not requisite, as there were other labourers,
besides us, resident in the place. At this ap
pointment she expressed her gratitude with


tears of joy. In the first days of April 1800
we set out on own journey, accompanied by a Si
ter from Bristol, who took the most faithful
care of my sick wife. Our dear Brn. & Srs.
from whom we parted with tender affection,
so liberally provided for own accommodations
on the road, that we could travel in the most
commodious manner possible.
Here at Fairfield she enjoyed a happy anti
cipation of her great Sabbath, tho' suffering
much from weakness and acute pains of va
rious kinds. But all these afflictions were Swee
tened to her by the consoling nearness of Jesus.
As a member of the E.C. tho' she could not
be personally present, she took an interest
ing share in every occurrence, and it was
very observable, that they engaged her mind in
her supplications at the throne of grace.
Her weakness gradually brought on a great
failure of her sight. In this situation she 
was much comforted and refreshed by my
frequently reading to her, portions of the Bible
and other edifying book. Next to the life 
and sufferings of Jesus, she took great de
light in the histories of Abraham, Joseph,
and the other ancient Worthies. With regard 
to human compositions, those that pleased
her most were, The Discourses of the late
Count Zinzendorf, the Life of Br. Spangen
berg, Pister's historical Extracts from the


books of the O.T. Mr. Robinson's Scripture
Characters &c. The present German Hymn
book of the Brethren afforded her much edifi
cation, and she was never tired of having the
fine collection of Passion hymns, which it
contains, read to her again and again. In
the latter part of her life she reaped much
pleasure an benefit from the Olney's Hymns
by Mr. Newton. These being mostly of a prac
tical nature, she often found her own expe
rience very clearly delineated, on which ac
count she desired, I would express our gra
titude to the Author for the blessing our Sa
vior has granted to our perusal of his hymns.
The was done soon after her departure, and 
cordially received.
In 1799, while still at Bristol, she wrote her
last letter to her two own Sisters, then residing
at Niesky and Gnadau. I will here insert
an extract of it. It appears from the same
that the uppermost wish of her heart was,
to retain, at all times, the very same impress
sion, and the same sensations, and in the same
degree of liveliness, as she enjoyed them at
the commencement of her new life and state
of grace. In this respect, she, perhaps. ex
pected too much; for she was hardly to be


appeased, if she perceived the least deficiency
in this point; and she had still to leave and to
practice this secret, that a poor sinful crea
ture must simply & nakedly hang upon Jesus
alone, and live by mere grace daily new: altho'
the remembrance of that great want, - the
transition from death into life - will always
serve us as a most comfortable encourage
ment, and as an assurance of the unalte
eable faithfulness of Jesus.
She writes:
"What an unspeakable consolation this
hope affords to you and me, that our Savi
or may, perhaps, soon be pleased to take me
home to himself, and thus completely de
liver me from all my misery. Surely, not
any one more welcome message could be
brought me, than this: Now thy happy end
approacheth. But then, I think again,
Alas! how much has our Savior still to
do to prepare me, that I may appear be
fore his presence faultless with exceeding joy.
By this preparation I mean that I
most ardently long to have constantly
such a lively impression of his suffering
and dying for me, as I felt at that time,
when I had the first believing view of Him
as agonizing for me, a poor, wounded and 
bruised sinner. But I have the firm


confidence in him, that before he calls me away
from the world, all his counsels of love will
be completed in me. I beseech you, often
to recommend me to our Savior in this view.
For, if it is rightly impressed on my heart,
what He has done for me, to deliver my soul
from death, and to what great salvation I am
appointed, thro grace: then, indeed, I reckon
with Paul, that the sufferings of this present
time are not worthy to be compared with the 
glory that shall be revealed in me. But
ah! how often do I still grieve our Savior
with my impatience. May He shew mercy
and forgive me! I pray Him to preserve
to you, my dear sisters, the feeling of his pre
cious nearness, and bless you with his peace.
Nothing can be compared with this highest
and greatest blessing."
She was much concerned about her own bro
ther in Nienburg, and he was the frequent
subject of her fervent prayers. As late, as
during her abode in Fairfield, she dictated
a most affectionate farewell letter to him.
And she had the joy to learn by letters from
Germany, that he was determined to live to
the Lord. A few weeks before her depar
ture the had the satisfaction to receive


a full confirmation of this joyful account,
both by letters from her Sisters, and from Br.
Illeffel, Minister at Gnadau, who had be
come acquainted with her brother. At the
same time she was informed, that his daugh
ter also loves our Savior, and has a great
desire to live in one of our congns. When
hearing this agreeable news, she wept for
joy, lift up her hands & eyes unto Jesus,
and broke out into these words: "Lord! let
now thine handmaid depart in peace! It is
enough! This news is well worth, that I
should have lived and suffered so long!"
With the Church of the Brethren my late
wife was truly united in the Lord, and groun
ded in the most solid basis. All the mee
tings were important to her and frequent
ly much blessed: but discourses, delivered
from the abundance of the heart, were more
particularly sweet and edifying to her, and
often left a profitable impression upon 
her minds for some days or even weeks after.
At Dublin and Bristol, as well as formerly
in the German congn, she had a pleasing
opportunity of regularly attending the
meetings, whenever her infirmity per
mitted, as our lodgings were near the chapel.


It was, therefore very painful to her, that the
distance of our dwelling in Fairfield from
the Chapel, deprived her of this pleasure.
But this was one of the lessons she had still
to learn. However she enjoy a many priveled
ges. She regularly partook of the Lord's Sup
per at home, with some friends; and had all
the Congn Accounts, and other Reports of
the increase of Christ's Kingdom on earth,
in which she was cordially interrested, com
municated to her. Besides we had often fa
mily devotions for praying and singing.
Only twice she was present at the celebra
tion of the Lord's Supper in the chapel at
Fairfield, the first time on Good friday
last year and the last on the festival
of the Md. Brn. & Srs. last year. The love
feast of the S. Sisters on May 4. this year
was the last meeting, at which she was pre
sent, in the chapel.
The last time she partook of the Lord's Supper,
after I had prayed with an uncommon feeling
and enlargement of soul; fervently commend
ing his to our faithful Savior: she continued
the prayer; pouring out her heart before him,


on the subject both of her private course thro'
life and of our married state, most affectia
nately commanding me unto his grace. This
impression of this extremely tender and affecting
scene, will never leave my mind.
Within the last days of her pilgrimage tro'
time by th she was much refreched by the fre
quent reading and singing of verses; particular
ly such, the subjects of which are, the Passion
of Jesus, joy in believing, Confidence in God
amidst trials & tribulations, our Departure
to the Lord, and the Glory of eternal life. On
these occasions she herself often gave out her fa
vourite verses. One evening in particular, she
was sweetly revived by the fine hymn:
"O Christ my life & light, &c. more especial
ly the verses: "Thou canest in love to my relief &c.
And, "Thy love has alway been the same
"And ever did pursue me &c.
The verses: "My Redeemer knoweth me,
Both in joy and in affliction &c
And, "Unexamined is that love,
Whereby we're with him connected &c.
And likewise a certain Lutheran hymn, be
ginning. Lookup, my soul, to Christ, thy Joy.*
coud hardly be often enough repeated to her.
* See Germ. H.B. No. 915 A translation of it
is attempted & subjoined to these Memoirs by the
Copier.


One verse in the new edition of our English
Hymn book, expresses her state of mind, in this
last stage of her life, incomparably well. It
is the following:
Tho' by trials strong surrounded
Yet, thro' Jesus' gracious care,
This poor heart is not confounded,
He doth all my sufferings share.
On his pow'rful and reclining
Calm I'll ev'ry grief sustain,
Bear the cross without repining,
Till the glorious crown I gain.
I do not remember, that during her long
and painful afflictions, which to me some
times appeared almost too much to bear, I
ever heard a dissatisfied, much less a mur
muring word escape her lips. She would even
not pray have us pray for any thing else
in her behalf, but for patience and resigna
tion to the holy will of our Lord, excepting
at such times, when uncommonly violent
pains, made her cry for a speedy release.
It gave her peculiar satisfaction to be informed,
that a Sister /Mary Mallahin/ of the place, who
was then confined by illness, expecting her
dissolution, enjoyed a very easy and comfortable


sickbed, free from all acute pains, untill her
last struggles.
A few days before her and, she asked the person
who attended her, "Whether she was reconciled to
God, and at peace with him?" The person,
not being able to make any reply, for tears,
the patient added: "How glad am I, that in
my present extreme weakness, this great
work is not now to be begun! I cannot
be thankful enough for the grace bestowed
on me, that I know in whom I have belie
ved and am persuaded that He is able to keep
that, which I have committed unto him a
gainst that day, so that now I have nothing
to do, but to rely in all things on his faithful
ness. Thanks be to God! I am divinely assu
red, that I am His and that He is mine. He 
had said also to me, "I will never leave thee,
nor forsake thee." This is enough for me;
for on his Word I can boldly depend." This
was her last explicit testimony to the Divine
mercy she had obtained. Her heart was so full
of this subject, that she would have continued
for sometime longer, uttering the praises of
his Redeemer, if her weakness had permitted.
Two days before her end, towards evening, she
was very cheerful and lively, rejoicing at the


visit of several Sisters, to whom she returned cor
dial thanks for their love shewn her in acts of 
kindness. She particularly expressed her warm
gratitude to her faithful attendant and nurse,
Sept. 14. she appeared like a weary child, and
ardently desire soon to depart, and be at home
with the Lord. I comforted her, saying, that
she had now only to wait for the next morning
as the Text of that day was very remarkable to
me in this respect. It was: Weep not! Luk. 7.13.
"He gives us, for our tears, - His oil of gladness."
I addressed her to this effect: "That the faith,
ful Master, with the tongue of the learned,
who well knew how to speak a word in reason
to the weary / according to the D.W. of tomorrow /
and who had very often said to her, "Weep not,"
would tomorrow morning salute her once
more with this cheering address, and then
wipe away all tears from her eyes." This
appeased her weary soul; she repeated those
comfortable words time after time, and in
the evening said to me" Yes, yes, it will be
as you expect - tomorrow morning - ah!
how reviving is this hope to me! tomorrow
morning my Jesus will come, and greet me


for the last time here below with those conso
ling words, Weep not!"
After a tolerably good night, she had still to
endure the last severe struggle, on wednesday
morning, the 15th of September, which lasted
abut half an hour. Her mind seemed quite
parched and dried up with burning heat, which
made her call for some refreshment. This
last effort of nature being past, she sank
into the utmost languer, but still remained
present to herself. I now hastened to command
her to the Lord, in prayer, and laid his blessings
upon her. After this she lay quiet for up
wards of an hour, and about half past eight
o'clock she creased to breathe, and her ranso
med soul softly entered into the rest and
joy of her Lord. I surrendered her to Him,
who gave and thus long preserved her to me,
with these words:
Now "Lord! now lettest thou thy handmaid
depart in peace, to see thy salvation in
glory, which she has seen and enjoyed here be
low by faith."
"The Lord's at hand! thy race is past,
Thou hast in view the prize;
Thy father's house thou gainest at last,
And Jesus greets thine eyes."


I cannot here omit expressing my evermost
thanks to my gracious Savior who has given
me this my faithful helpmate, and left
her with me these eighteen years, to my
import and blessing.
Her mortal part was interred on Satur
day the 18th. on which occasion Br. Foster
held the funeral discourse on the words, cho
sen by herself for that purpose: "Weep not!"
It was remarkable to me, that the text
of that day was the same, which had left
an impression on her soul at her confir
mation, "Be thou faithful unto death,
and I will give thee a crown of life."
On these words I held a kind of paren
tation for her the next morning, being
Lord's day.
God our Savior be thanked and praised
for her happy consummation!
It struck _ the wish'd _ for hour _ Christ's blood
Has perfected thy bliss;
And to thy Fathers' blest abode
Thou art conveyed in peace.


Thou hast attaind to perfect rest,
From pain and sorrow free.
Thou hastenst to Christ's arms & breast;
Where couldst thou happier be?
#           #           #
Happy soul! thy days are ended,
All thy mourning days below
Go, by Angel guards attended,
To thy Saviors Presence go!
Waiting, to receive thy spirit,
Lo! thy Savior stands above,
Shows the purchase of his merit,
Reaches out the crown of love!
/See Engl. Congn. Accts. of 1802/


Translation of the German Hymn
referred to in the preceeding narrative.
1. Look up, my soul to Christ, thy Joy
With a believing mind; 
Forget the ills, which thee annoy,
The way to Jesus find:
If in the world those findst no house,
Strait to thy living Savior come,
He is the pearl of greatest price,
Who all thy wants supplies.
2. Firm in faith, to Jesus cleave,
His faithfulness review,
All thy concerns in his hands leave,
Whose love is daily new;
He means it well; his ways are right;
He puts thy enemies to flight,
However threatning they appear,
Take courage; He is near.
3. Thy closet enter; pray and sigh,
To Jesus tell thy grief.
His ear is open to thy cry,
His hand to give relief;


Tho' men forake thee, hate and grieve,
Yet will thy Savior ther ne'er leave,
His word is past; he'll help afford,
Then trust thou in the Lord.
4. Stretch thy sublinest thoughts on high,
And leave this sordid earth;
Behold with a believing eye
God's excellence and worth!
Devote thy life, thy all to him,
Who did thy soul from death redeem,
In love to thee the cross endur'd.
And this thy life procur'd.
5. Arise, and seek the things above,
Let Heav'n be all thy aim,
Where Jesus dwells in bliss and love.
And earth and sin disclaim:
The world and all its flippant joy
His potent breath will once destroy;
In Jesus' love alone we find
True rest and peace of mind.


