Our late Sr Elizth Coffin was born  
near at Elledmere, on the borders of Wales, A.D. 1777
her father being an extensive farmer.
Of her earlier years, very little is
known to us; as our late Sr left
no memoranda of her course thro'
time. It appears however that
her religious impressions were
received early in life; & she was accustomed
to refer to one youthful experience
as a turning proint in her experience course.
Whilst attending the parish Church,
some particular sentence in the morning
prayer come home to her heart with
such power, that she felt the love of 
Christ as accomplishing her redemption. 
She was thus persuaded of her interest in
his atonement, & it is remarkable
in the religious experience of our
late Sr, that her course was not so
subject to change & deviation as


that of the majority of the Lord's
children. As far as her Xn experience
is known to us, she has alway spoken
of his life of faith as a happy one;
she knew no periods of gloom & tasted
not the bitterness of the soul from 
whom the Lord's comforts are with
drawn.
As the age of 17 or 18, she removed
to London, and entered the family
of our late Sr Vowel with whom she
lived till that lady's death. It
was during her residence there, &
during Br Montgomry's service of
the Congn that she joined the Church
of the Brn, of which she has been
so many years a consistent member
After Sr Vowel's departure, she 
remained with the 2 Mr Youngs, the
nephews of the deceased till her own health began to fail.
About the year 1820, she removed
to Bristol, where she became an in
mate, of the sisters house, during


Br Okelys' ministry. Her slay
in Bristal was but short, &
the subsequent years of her life, 
up to her last removal in Fulneck,
appear to have been somewhat un
settled as to her abode. She lived
in Fulneck Srs House for a few
years; & also spent some time again
in London, & with more than one
family of her relatives.
In July 1831 i.e about 24 years ago
she settled finally on Fulneck, a
place which seems above others to
be that of her choice. Her
walk among us here, her peculiarities
her cheerful nature, her activitz &
especially her great love for the meetings
for family & public worship these
are well known to many who this
day see her mortal remains conveyed
to their last resting place. 
Being so long an invalid, her thoughts
were often busied concerning upon her own


health whilst she inquired sympa
thisingly after she welfare of others.
About a year ago, when speaking
of a recent attack of illness, she re
marked I had sometimes the feeling
that she Lord would take me to
himself. Being asked whether she
felt herself prepared for the last change
she replied in her quick characteristic
manner & quite cheerfully -- It would
be a great shame if I were not ready
for it; for it is now 50 years since
I first knew the Lord; & since that
time he has enabled me to serve
Him It would be ungrateful in me
to think he would not accept me
at the last."
For the last twelve month s her
health was perceived to her failing con
siderably tho' she would not, till
near the last, hear of seeking medi
cal advice. Tho' she most often
have been suffering from weakness
& pain she was still seen as her


place in the Prayer Hall & Chapel
where the meetings were always a
source of spiritual enjoyment To her "As
long as I can I must go" she would
say "for soon I may not be able"
Towards the close of last week,
as perceptible change was noticed in 
her & it be came evident to her friends,
tho' not as first to herself, that her
time here below was drawing near
it close. When her labouress
alluded to the approaching end, & asked
her whether she felt ready for our Saviours
coming, if it should please Him to 
take her now, she answered, that
she would like to feel Him nearer, but
she had no fear. 
On Sunday, the last day of her
life, tho' growing very feeble, she
retained a clear conciousness & on
unshaken faith. In reply to a question
as to her spiritual support in this trouble
she answered with energy "I will trust
Him tho' he slay me." And again
she said "I care not what pain


I have, if I have only Him with me
For the attention of the Sisters &
friends to her in her illness, she was
truly grateful, & expressed herself
surprised at the display of love
which she witnessed.
On Sunday evening when her
Laboress told her she our Savr might would probably
very soon come & take her to himself,
she seemed still somewhat surprised that
her end should be so near; but was
free from all apprehension of the event.
Her feeling appeared to be that of the
conviction & confidence expressed
in the Hymn 1184. 2 Thou knowst &c.
*Insert
She regretted Br Libbay's absence from
the Congn at this time, much wishing to 
live to see him again; as at the first,
she appeared not right to have under
stood him in his Conversat with her.
When asked if she wished to par
take of the H. Comn again, she replied
somewhat doubtfull, -- I do not rest on
that - You know He is my Bread of
Life.
The same evening she received the 
blessing of the Congn. imparted by Br
Okely after a fervent prayer for the 
nearness & support of Jesus in this
hour of trial - She was not only per
fectly conscious during this transaction
but expressed also the enjoyment &
benefit she had derived form it.
About 10 o'cl. the same evening
Jan 28th /55 whilst supported in the arms of some 
the sisters the hour of her departure
came; the silver cord was loosed,
& she gently breathed her last, her
ransomed? spirit departing to be with
that Lord whom she had long here
followed in faith tho' in feebleness &
with the sense of much unperfection. Her age was 77 years. May our
end be as tranquil & happy, & as
full of confidence in our unseen
but present & faithful Redeemer! 


