The Life of the Single Sister Sarh Craven who departed
in Fulneck Novr 10th 1790.
I was born at Rothwel near Leeds in Yorkshire Novr: 11th 1719 and
Liv'd with my Parents till my Father died who belong'd to the 
Church of England. When I was a Child I often wish'd to die, for
I thought at that age I shou'd be saved; but if I liv'd to grow
up to be a Woman I should come into things which would hinder
me from attaining eternal happiness. When I came into riper
years I follow'd the World with eagerness, tho not with satisfaction
for I often felt uneasy in my mind, but put it off, resolving to
grow better, but still went on in my old way. After my Father's
death I went to live with my Uncle, and was with him when Mr
Ingham came into those parts, but soon after went to live with my
Mother: she ask'd me to go with her to hear him Preach, but I
declin'd it for this reason, I believ'd if I was one of his followers
I must renounce the World; which was my cheif Object at that time
Soon after he came again to preach nearer to our habittution; my
Mother urged me to go with her which I could not help complying with
tho, spiritually dead, and the discourse had no effect, and I wonder'd


what induc'd People to run after him, my Mother invited him to
Preach at our House but he did not chuse to do it except we
would have a Society settled, to which she consented. In the mean
time my Mother spoke very closely to me about the state of my
Soul; thus prepar'd I went to hear him again, During his Sermon
I was made sensible of my last condition, I wish'd I could alter,
and thought I had better be depreved, of this Worlds pleasure then
love my mortal Soul, I thought I could part with every thing
I had in the World to be assur'd of my Salvation; but fear'd it
was impossible. In this miserable state I continued a long time
and came into self working. by degrees my misery worse off and
I concluded this was the right way to do all the good that was in my
power, so my conscience was to be appeased, but being of a hasty
temper and sometimes overcome with passion, my good oppinion
of my self vanish'd and I became miserable again. In the Year
1740. Mr. Ingham and Br Teltshig came to our house, the latter
could not speak English, but his look made a particular impression
on me and I believed him to be indeed  a Child of God. In a short time
after this Visit out Society was dispers'd which troubled me very
much. One of them and myself desir'd to be admitted into another Society
wich was soon after the case with a small company at Holbeck near
Leeds; But not having the pleasure to see Brn & Srs often, I grew dry
in my heart, Upon being ask'd to be Servant in a Family, I at first


refused but being earnestly intreated I at last accepted and went to
the place. I was very uneasy in it for I found. I had no freedom
to mix in worldly company, but was Oblidged to stay my time
out. The night before I left my place, I drew that Verse, When
I was lost and far had stray'd. Into a Desart wild & the day
after when I was with my Mother some Sisters came to see me, I
told them what had pass'd, they advised me to make a new begining
and then our Saviour and the Brn would forgive me these words
comforted me for I did not expect to hear such from them. The first
meeting I went to after their Visit, Br Telstig kept on the following
words" ye cannot serve two Masters "it seem'd as if he directed
his discourse to me alone and I determin'd to have our Saviour
alone for my Master. a short time after I was advised to live with
two Sisters in Holbeck, I did so, but my sittuation was not at first
agreable to me, I did not remain long with them being desir'd by
Br Tiltsheg to go to Leeds to wait on a Sick Sister, but soon became
sick myself, as I had then no money left to help me I was persuaded to 
live with my Mother with whom I remain'd till she died. The day
before she departed a Sister visited her where she would like to have
me sittuated; she reply'd, among the Sisters, But after her death I
felt such a strong attachment to my Relations that I thought I could
not part with them, which brought me again into trouble and quite
at a loss what to do, When I was by my self my faithful Monitor
convinc'd me once more that I was not in my right place; to stay then
would be dangerous for my Soul. I immediately set off to acquaint


my former Laboress and disclos'd my whole case, She recomended
me to another Family in Holbeck, this was in the Year 1750
I attended the Preaching in Fulneck every Sunday. Br Latrobe
Sermons were a real blessing to me and I frequently imagin'd
that he knew my inmost thoughts, I had no rest day nor night
on account of the burden of my sins, One day as I was by myself
earnestly entreating our Saviour to manifest himself unto me,
he granted, my request and gave me a full assurance of the for
giveness of my sins, which came with such power that it melted
me into tears. from this time and particularly during my stay
in that Family, I received many blessings from our Savior, This
was a particular period with the Brethrens Congregation, their
enemies in these parts where not affraid to prognasticate their
ruin notwithstanding this I wish'd for a still closer union with
them and importun'd to be a member of the Congn The two Srs
with whom I Liv'd having departed this Life it was thought proper
for me to leave Holbeck and I was placed at last to my great joy
in the Single Srs Oeconomy at Gomersal May 20th 1755, and was
soon at home with them, tho, it prov'd a new school for my heart.
The 3d of March 1756 I was inform'd would be a general Congregation 
Day. I got an impression on that day I should have the favor to
be added thereto, I therfore kept a band with our Savior sensible of
my poverty and helplessness yet comforted with his nearness.


In this Sittuation of mind according to my impression I was
received into the Congn on the above mentioned title day which
prov'd a great blessing to me Thus far her own account
April 20th 1756 our late Sister remov'd from Gommersal to live
in the Choir House here. March 21st 1757 she partook of the 
holy Communion with the Congregation for the first time, It
was evident notwithstanding all human imperfection that she
had found her peace with our Savior. She knew in whom she beleivd
and was perswaded that he was able to keep that which she
had comitted unto him this help'd her through every trying
circumstance she met with; her call to the Congn of Jesus she
value'd highly and often spoke of it with the greatest gratitude
It was a particular pleasure to her to serve her Sisters in any little
matters she was able to do which she did with greatfaithfulness
as long as her strength would admitt of it. The begingning of
this Year an Asmatick complaint which she had labor'd
under many years grew very troublesome to her, so that
She was oblidg'd in Jany to move into the sick room, when
her longing to be at home with our Savior increased daily. It
gave her much pain when two of her companions in the Sick


room were called home before her, she suffer'd much in her sick,
ness which made her sometimes rather impatient and think 
the time long, but she would soon recollect herself again and in
treated our Savior to give her a Childlike resignation to his will
that she might not greive him by her impatience. The night
before her departure, she said I am waiting for our Saviour
to come and fetch her me, he will not be long now before he comes
I shall then see him for my self; sickness and sorow will have
an end, He will wipe all tears from my Eyes. that night she
spent in great Weakness but in gooeerse converse with her best Freind
Novr 10th the happy moment came when she departed in a soft
and easy manner to her dear Redeemer with the blessing of
her Choir half past 10 oclock in the forenoon during a sensible
feeling of our dear Lords presence, in the 72nd Year of her Age.


