Our late Sr Mary Delamotte was born
Oct 19th 1729 in London and baptized
in the Church of England. Her Father
being a Justice of peace and a pious man
gave her a good education & brought her
up in the love & fear of God. But
as she he failed in his external cir
cimstances it was a great grief to him
to see her unprovided for he recomended
her to the care & protection of the
Lord. After his departure both she
& her Mother joined the Brns Congn
& Oct 6th 1749 she was by receiption
into the same added into closer con
nection. May 2d 1750 she moved
to Bedfort where she May 15th 1757
the first time partook of the H. Comn
in Oct the same year she came to live
here at Fulnek; tho' something had
occurred which at that time desturbed
her mind, yet she settled very well, and 
not being used to poverty & spinning, it
was edifying to those who knew her at
that time, to see her conduit and resig
nation. When some years after a day
School was begun here for the Children


in the Place she was appointed for that
purpose, where she served with faith
fulness for several years; & the Children
committed to her care loved & respected
her much. July 27th 1768 she was ac
cepted an Acoloth. Her She spent her time 
amongs us in a general way happy;
she placed her her confidence in our
Saviour with Childlike reliance, and 
when she spoke of his Goodness & mercy
towards her, her Eyes overflowed with
tears, to attend the meeting was her
hearts delight and nothing would grieve
her more; then when she was not able deprived
to attent of that blessing To do good and assist others
in whatever she could was her greatest
pleasure. Of late years, age and infermi
tie increasing, she was an Inhabitant
of the Sickroom tho she was able to go
about. Apr 17th 1810 the unfortuned circum
stance happened, when she was left
alone for about 5 minutes, her Cloths
took fire, & she was much hurt.
However every thing being done to help
her, we were in hopes she would get over
it, but it proved in vain. Her


patience under her heavy suffering & afflic
tion & her heartmoving prayers which
she often put up to our Saviour,
was an edification to all who vi
sited her; she was very grateful to those
whose waited on her & watched with
her; & wished no body to miss as she
loved all dearly & liked to see them.
June 16th her sufferings increasing much
she prayed fervendly to our Saviour, soon
to take her to himself; & being very
desirous to receive the blessing for
her departure, while she was sensible
to it, this request was granted her,
during on this occation our Saviour pre
sense was sensibly felt, & she prayed
with uplifted hands: "Dear Saviour!
come soon; thy mercy is my only plea
Thy stripes, thy sounds & a agony, have
healed me poor worthless sinner, O 
take my soul to rest, come soon,
come soon!" After this she lay mostly
still, and the 19th it pleased our Savr
to release her from all her pain & to trans
late her into the mentions of bliss.
Aged 81 years. 8 Months


* She also looked upon as as great
blessing, that an Unkle of hers who
departed this life, had left left her
a Legacy, which supported her in
externals, & made it comfortable
in her old age


