The Course of Life of the Youth John Ellis. He departed Augst 17. 1764
He was born at Mirfield August the 8th 1748, and in his Infancy was
a soft and tender hearted Child. When he was 4 Years old he went to live
with his Uncle Brook, who gave him such Education as all Working
People's Children commonly have in this Country commonly have, till he
was 7 years old, at which time his Uncle died & then he came home to his
Father & Mother, who just then were beginning to hear the Methodists, & finding
that this their Son was grown a wild Child in his Uncle's House, it gave them
much Concern about him, they however shewed all possible Faithfulness
to him, in keeping him out of such Company as they thought might do him
harm. When he was 9 Years old his Father & Mother begun to hear the Brn
and he seemed to have a liking to go with them; but there appeared no abi
ding signs of our Savr's gaining his Heart while he was in his Children's Years.
After he was received into the great Boys Choir, an Alteration happened to him, & a
Change was wrought in him, which was a great Satisfaction to his Parents, his
whole Concern seemed to be now after our Savr alone, & being entirely his, & he
also grew solid in his daily Conduct, & he was beloved by his Choir Labourers.
After this Change had been wrought in him his continual Longing was to get
a Place in the Choir House, & which he had Hopes of obtaining, but several Cir
cumstances contributed to put if it off from Time to Time untill his Father
went home a Year & a half ago, & about that Time there appeared strong
Symptoms in him of a Consumption, which confined him at Home with his Mother.
His Mother being left a Widow with several small Children, he thought it in
cumbent upon him to help her according to his Ability & Strength, & behaved
like a Father among the Younger Children & exerted himself in the Family
beyond his Strength. He was often grieved at himself because he could not work
always Work as he gladly would, & it also went near him when he saw the other
Children careless & slothful. Tho' he was very Weak, yet he went to his Meetings
both at Fulneck & in the Chapel beyond his Ability, & it was a Pleasure & Re
freshment to him. He was openhearted & free when he was spoken with, & retained much
of his childlike Simplicity & went on in a steady Course, having our Savr for his Object.
Several Means were made Use of in order to help him, but our Savr's Intention was
to prepare him to take him to Himself. His Mind Mind was taken up with
Thoughts of going to our Savr for some Time before he went, but was cautious in speak
ing much about it before his Mother, lest it might grieve her. In the Morning of the 
17th of August, which was the Day of his Departure, he said to his Mother "Do not you be
grieved about me or concerned about me; I am certain of my Happiness, & shall now
soon go to our Savr." Br Worthington came to him about 7 o'Clock, & found him in a
Slumber, but upon singing a Verse he awoke & said: "I have been with our Savr, & his
Wounds were delightful to look at. He will soon come again & take me entirely to
Himself." He was perfectly Sensible, & knew every Body about him. As Breathing


seemed difficult to him, he was asked if he had much Pain? To which he
answered; no Pain at all. He begged that his Bones might be laid at Fulneck,
among his Brn, & where his Fathers were also laid; he then fell into a gentle Slum
ber, & remained so till 3 o'Clock in the Afternoon, when his Soul took Flight to its
beloved Friend & Redeemer, having spent 16 years & 9 days in this Mortal Tabernacle


