Brief Notices concerning the life of
the Widow Sr Hannah Farrant, m.n. Wood
who departed on January the 24th 1866.
at Fulneck.
Our late Sr Farrrant m.n. Wood was born
on January the 25th 1793 at Drighlington. At
the time of her birth her parents were not
Members of the Brethrens Church, although
her grand parents and other relatives had
been more on less acquainted and connected
with the Congregation at Fulneck. From
Drighlington her parents removed to Lane
End, Bankhouse, and joined the Congrega
tion in this place,  Br. Wood rendering
himself useful as a Sick Visitor, and a
travelling companion to the late Br. Ramftler
and others, on their journeys to the Out preaching
Stations at Wibsey and elsewhere. When
still very young our late Sister entered into
the service of Br. & Sr James Latorbe with whom
she also removed fr Fulneck to Duckinfield
After having left this situation, she filled
similar posts in various families & Even
ties, and lastly lived with the late Br Joseph
Hinchcliffe, at Great Horton, from whence she
returned for some time to her parents,
with whom she resided and then entered into
the married state with her late husband Mr
Jonathan Farrant. At that time she was in Society
fellowship with and Congregation here, and


had attended our Chapel during her residence
at home, not without some blessing to her son
She lived with her husband first at Wakefield
and then for many years at Bradford where
they attended the ministry of that worthy man
of God, the late mr. Taylor, of Horton Lane independ
ent Chapel, and his fitted and amiable sucessor
the late mr Glyde. She often spoke with peculiar
delight of the many blessings she enjoyed under
the ministry & pastorate of these servants of the Lord. In
seasons of sickness and affliction she found
their counsel of real comfort & lasting benefit
She learnt to know the value of the Bible as the
precious Book divine, by inspiration given; and made
a frequent and good use of it for her edifica
tion. We have heard it from her own Eyes and
from the testimonies of those who own and knew
her then, that she enjoyed sweet communion with
her God, and spent many happy times in fellow
ship with seriously disposed persons.
It is possible though I speak here with the utmost
caution and dissidence, as my own knowledge
of our late Sister is but rely imperfect it is
possible, that though of a serious and religious
turn of mind, and wishful to live to God and to
serve him acceptably, she had not learnt to
know herself as a poor helpless sinner whose
only merit, is the merit of at Jesus, and whose
sole salvation is that presented by him. One
real peace of mind and lasting joy we have
in the Lord Jesus at and in his finished work.
Our religious exercises, our Christian expe-
riences, -- our best actions independent
of his blood, and the comfort of his holy spirit,
the sprinkling


however praiseworthy in themselves, however satisfac
tory to the eyes of mortal man, never can how
ever will be a sure foundation for the lost souls of
sinful man: Their wants must be supplied from
above, their carings are after eternal things-- and
in X alone they can find full satisfaction.
Nine years ago our late Sr. removed with her
husband hither to Fulneck; and by their own re-
quest they were received into church fellowships
with the people of God in this place. In Nov. 1858
she last her partner after those death the con-
tinued to reside at Fulneck, and as long as she
was able attend the services both public & private
in our Chapel. Whenever deprived of these means
of peace, which was especially the case during
the past year of his life, she found compensation
for this loss in studying her Bible sending and
meditation, and after felt much interested in spiritual
conversation with seriously disprsed friends.
By her naturally warm temperament, and an
occasional undue attention to, and fretting
about external, temporal matters, she frequently both himself
herself many needless perplexities while she
thereby grieved others, and prevented them discerning from
appreciating her better qualities. To fully aware
was she at the willingness and unity of all earthly
things, Thus that once during her last illness, when speakg
with a relative of the new heavens and the new Earth
wherein dwelleth righteousness, she observed, she
would rather have nothing whatever to do with the
Earth for there was nothing but trouble and sorrow
in it. And she herself in the happier hands of
calm reflection felt amazed and grieved that
there external matters should exercise such an
influence over her and harass & excite her mind
At such times she longed to be delivered from in this ???


Oh, it is a blessed thing while we are in the world in
the midst of our daily troubles & tails- though we
walk in the flesh, not to war after the flesh, but to cast
down very imagination and every high thing that ex
alteth itself against the knowledge of God, and to bring
every thought into captivity, to the obedience of Christ
When I came to live there at Fulneck towards this
end of October for some time past our late Sis
ters health was failing more and more. But as
she had frequently been very unwell and then again
rallied it was thought by some that this her late illness also,
which proved her last, would give way and end in her
comparative recovery. But ever since the beginning
of the year the deprived symptoms became more
and more alarming, and her medical adviser soon
pronounced her case to be a hopeless one. On one or
two occasions when reminded of the probability of
her speedy dissolution, she expressed herself not
only hopeful but even resigned and cheerful at the
prospect of her departure declining that her trust
was in Jesus alone. But as the time of the end drew
nearer, and especially when her bodily infirmities in-
creased affecting as then did her head & her brain, she
lost her confidence in the Lord, and clouds and occasional
darkness came ever her soul: Still she prayed to the
Soul & hoped for his salvation. We spiritually commended
her in earnest prayer to our Saviour's merciful kindness,
and she invariably responded to these appeals for pardon
and an assurance of her acceptance, as far as we could
judge not only with her voice but from her very heart.
This was especially the case on the day before her departure
when she was extremely weak & full of pain, yet quite
sensible, and thankful for the spiritual consolations
that were conveyed to her. On Saturday morning about
10 o cl she was after an earnest prayer, in which she her
self joined, blessed for her departure in the presence
of her brother & niece- Shortly after she praised
the Lord seemed calm and peaceful in her mind
and soon after about  12 o'cl departed this life as we hope
to be with Christ. Her age was 73 years 12 days.


