Mary Hague was born Jany 26 1798. She was of a remarkably
lively disposition, and dutifulness and affection were two very
prominent features in Her character. Her early years
were spent much in the usual way, following the different
branches of education especially music for which She had a
particular taste to this she Paid very great attention
and made in it for come time considerable progress.
At the happy departure of her
much loved Mother in the year 1812 She with the rest of the fa
mily was too much affected but no change then appeared in
Her conduct or disposition She continued as before very thought
less and exceedingly fond of Dress and gay company, no alteration
took place, until some little time before she entered the Church
of the Brethren Feby 26. 1819 Where for many years the fami
ly had constantly attended, then she not only threw off the
gaudy ornaments of dress, but also discontinued her conver
sation with several of her acquaintance whose characters and pur
suits seemed then quite incongenial with her own, but the
circumstance which appeared more directly to lead to her con
version was the happy death of a friend with whom the family
for a long time were very intimately connected, and whose 
hed she attended then it was she professed entirely to have done
with the world and that her determination to make her Saviour
the only object of her heart. At the close of April 1819
the Lord visited her with a violent inflamation of the lungs
which continued during the space of nearly three months.
She was restored to health through the instrumentality of
Doctor Jenner of Berkely where the remained some time for
the benefit of the air. This illness much enfeebled her consti
tution and at the beginning of May 1820 She was again
seized with the same disorder which terminated in a
??? consumption, Her Medical advisor consistened? a change
of air again necessary. She accordingly went to Mundham ??
the complaint however instead of decreasing grew worse, some
most alarming symptoms made their appearance and it was
thought advisable for her to return home; it became soon
evident that her departure was fast approaching of this how
ever she could not for some time be persuaded the nature
of the disorder being very flattering. During this and her
former affliction the Holy Spirit appeared to tarry on theing on the
mark of ????


too thankful for His love for this rendering smooth ??? passage
through the gates of death.
During the latter part of Her illness She seldom able to read
or to hear Persons reading to her but when she had sufficient strength
she always prefered prefered the Sacred Scriptures and the Brethrens
Hymns. A friend once asked Her if she found Jesus more precious
to her when in pain than at any other time? She looked up and
and with emotion said Jesus alone is my support it He that
strengthens me, ah! that a dreadful thing would be if I
Had a Saviour to seek now when the pain of my body almost over
powers me, how necessary in it to seek Him in the days of Health.
She frequently repeated 1102 Hymn With undaunted resolution &c
and 435 O tell me no more of this worlds vain Aim &c.
A few days before Her decease, she gave directions concerning Her
funeral and finished the distribution of her trinkets & after she
had done she folded her hands and gently reclining on her pillow said
Dear Saviour if thou hast no more work for me to do here on earth
permit me to depart unto thee. She said to the nurse who had
been connected will the family for many years and was then washing
Mary's ???  do you shed those tears cannot you give me up to the
Lord when I have been enabled to give myself up to Him
are you greived to see me go up to Heaven a short time before you
you will soon follow, my being taken in to wean you more from
the world and to teach you to place your affection on your Heavenly
Father O Mary, Mary, he not so much attached to your earthly
friends. Some young friends (who had shown very great kindness
to her during then illness) she addressed very affectionately and en
treated them to turn their backs on the world, Earnestly to seek
a Saviour whilst in health and or to leave it for a sick bed,
She asked, if I did not love you I should not feel this concerned
for your spiritual welfare. She bade them farewell saying she
did not expect to see them any more in this world but trusted she
should meet them in Heaven. When having a sleepless Night
she would frequently repeat those lines, Tho painful at present &c.
At one Oclock on Saturday morning July 15th Symptoms of Death
appeared in her countenance, this was the last day she was able to
converse and then but little but what she said was most Satisfactory


until a little time before her dissolution she was very ???
and spoke very little of the ?? of Her mind except when ques
tions were put to Her. About the middle of her illness
she was asked if she thought the Lord had dealt hardly in thus
afflicting her. O no said she with much earnestness it is
all right I would not have it altered if I could. On her fa
vourite Hymn 1102 of the Brethrens, being read to her she ex
claimed Oh how invigorating When another of these Hym
ns read one in Communon with God she was asked if she knew
what it meant O yes said she this in all my delight
when I am alone to commune with my Saviour. being asked
if she was ??? tempted she said no Her mind was kept
very calm Satan was kept from distressing Her which
was a mercy. July 1st considering the time of her de
parture to be fast approaching she expressed a wish
of distributing among some of her relations the few things
she possessed; and whilst looking over some trinket she
gazed at them for a while and then said What trash!
for the adorning of our persons which are of so little in
stance, she frequently conversed on the emptyness
of all ??? enjoyments and in the language of the ??
preacher of old exclaimed vanity of vanities all is vanity.
She requested her wish to speak to some of Her Dear relati
ons respecting their spiritual welfare might be made
known to them for said she it may make a lasting im
presion in their minds as it will proceed from the life
of a dying person. Whilst addressing them in the most faithful and
affectionate manner she appeared quite composed and spoke of her
departure without evincing the least token of fear or uneasi
nesss, She frequently expressed a wish to see her Father and Bro
ther who were unavoidably from home but the improbability of
their being able to return before her desease did not at all discom
pose Her. On being asked if she thought the time of Her dis
solution drawing nigh, she answered O yes, I am travelling fast
on the road to my Heavenly Fathers Kingdom! In the evening
of July 5th She was in such extreme pain that it was thought pro
per to send for her medical advisor who gave her something
that is little relieved Her, in the morning she said how merciful
the Lord is in affording means to assuage pain, surely I cannot be


y Blessed Saviour is they love
So Courteous, great and free?
Behold I give my sinfull heart
My lifes my all to thee.
O Lord I'll treasure in my Soul
The meaning of thy love:
And thy dear name shall still to me
A gratefull odor know.
How great at last my joy will be
If I have faithful proved
To Christ and midst adversity
Other refuge have I none
Hangs my helpless Soul on thee
Leave, oh, leave me not alone
Still support and comfort me;
All my trust on thee is Nay.
All any help from thee I bring;
know my defenceless Head
With the shadow of thy bring.
Tis a point I long to know
Oft it causes anxious thought
Do I love the Lord, or no?
Am I his or am I not?
Wellcome sweet day of unto
that saw the Lord arise;
Welcome to this reviving hearts
And these rejoicing eyes."
Father I long, I burnt, to see
the place of thine abode
lions thin earthly courts in ???
?? thy seat my God?"


To Heaven the joyful tidings flew
And Angels tuned their harps anew
And loftier notes did rain:
All Hail the Lamb who once has slain
Unnumbered millions home again,
Will shout their endless praise.”


Jesus can make a dying her
Soft as downy pillows one
While on His breast I leave my Head
And breathe my life out sweetly there.”
“Then when ye hear my heartstrings break;
How sweet my ??? roll:
A mortal paleness on my Cheek;
But gladly in my Soul.”
O glorious hour; O blest shade!
I shall be near, and like my God’s
And flesh and sin no more can ???
the sacred pleasures of my Lamb.” 


