The married Sr Martha Hartley, whose maidn Name
was Vicars, departd Novr 17th 1794 at Fartown near
Huddersfield. She has left extensive Memorandums
of her Life of which the following is an Extract.
I was born in Hallifax Feby 8th 1746. My Mother
being awakened when she was young, sought earnestly for
her Salvation, and was of course much concerned for the
Happiness of her Children, and look me constantly to the
Childrens Meetings at Stannery and Wyke whereby I received
a lasting Impression in my heart of our Saviours Love.
I delighted in singing of our Saviours Wounds and Sufferings,
at which I often melted into Tears. I remember, that after I
had had a severe Sickness, my Mother took me and my Sisters,
spoke to us of our Saviours great love to suffer and bleed
for us, and then sang with us the Hymn: O Head so full of
Bruises &c, during which we had such a feeling of our Savrs
presence, that we all wept. My Childrens Years were happy
days, which I spent in reading the Bible, singing Verses and
frequently kneeling before our Saviour entreating him to
make a happy Child of me. In the year 1759, I was the first
time in Fulneck; The Sight of the Girls and Srs quite overcame
me, and from that Moment I determined to live with them,
if it was possible. My Mother being equally concerned
lest I should get a love for the World, obtained leave for me
in 1759 to move to the Girls School at Gomersal. Here the
Srs had in the Begining a deal of trouble with me having
been so much indulged at home, as also on account of my


natural haughty Temper; But thro' the Blessings I enjoy'd
and the love of the Sisters, I was however soon at home.
Soon after this a new period of Grace took place in my
heart. I with some other Girls often conversed together
about living for our Saviour, and accordingly we pray'd
and devoted ourselves to him. But I am at a loss how to
write this part of my life; For I knew that I had felt our
Saviours love in my heart, and now I saw my wretchedness
and that I was a last undone Sinner and without a Saviour;
This I could not reconcile to myself. I cry'd almost Night
and day and often weted my Pillow with my Tears, entreating
our Saviour to forgive me my Sins and to reveal his love
to me. I had not courage to speak to the Sisters in my
Troubles, imagening they would not understand me. Our
Saviour drew often near to me with his Comforts, but I
durst not rely on it, lest I should deceive myself. On the
2d of August 1760 I moved into the Choir-house at Fulneck,
and on the 13th I was received into the Congn, which bowed
me with Gratitude. I expected now nothing but happiness
in the Congn, but instead of this my innate Depravity showed
itself in a still stronger Light, which very near distracted
me. But one Saturday evening, before the Singing-Hour,
I went into a private place and cast myself at our Savrs
Feet beg'd of him to pardon me my Sins and speak peace
to my Soul. It was as if I heard a Voice saying: Thy
Sins are forgiven thee! My Load was removed and I
could rejoice in the God of my Salvation. Tho' I


doubled no more of my Interest in our Saviour,
yet my not being openhearted for the Sisters, and loosing
myself in SelfComplacency, Pride, reasoning about things
I did not like and self working, my Course was exceeding
uneven and frequently very distressing, till at last I
found some Relief in having several candid Conversations
with Sr Sarah Cennick, whereby I was encouraged to
surrender myself with all my Misery to our Saviours
help and power. Upon this I enjoy'd at different times
extraordinary Blessings from our dear Lord, which flow'd
on me from his making himself of no Reputation, his
Merits and sufferings for my poor proud heart. The
20th of June 1767 I had the Grace to become a participant
of the holy Communion with the Congn, under a sense
of my great unworthiness. I now spent my time till
Septr 1770 in a happy manner, loved my Choir Companions
and enjoy'd also their Love to me, and when ever some
times my natural proud disposition would interrupt
me, I could find my way again to our Saviour as a
Sinner. O that I could stop here, and cast a Vail
over the remaining part of my Life! My Mother
withdrew herself from the Connexion of the Congn, and
insisted upon my leaving Fulneck. Tho various Steps
were taken to prevent it, yet it was ultimately of no
avail, and I, tho reluctantly, went to live in Hallifax
and kept a School there. What I went thro' here no tongue
can express. I soon saw the striking difference between
a Congn of Jesus and any being in the broadway that leads


to destruction. Continued Convictions and constant
Condemnations were my Companions. When I endeavoured
to assist myself in forming Resolutions, to keep to our
dear Saviour, he being however every where; My evil
Propensities and the outward worldly Follies, which
corrisponded with my heart, soon baffled my best deter
minations. Being surrounded with Temptations and
seeing myself in the utmost danger, I fervently beg'd
of our Saviour, to preserve me at least from gross Sins
and Transgressions, which he has also graciously done.
I entered at last, in June 1775, with fear and trembling
into the married State, with Mr Hartley of Fartown near
Huddersfield, who kept a Boarding School. Outwardly me
prospered; But I soon found, that my Expectations to live
with my husband to the Lord, according to previous agree
ment, and I to enjoy my full religious Liberty, were
frustrated. His Temper and my high Spirit; My hearts
wish, still to live to the Lord and his opposition thereto,
made the first years of our Marriage very miserable.
In this distressed state I took my refuge frequently to
to our dear Lord, with the inmost hearts desire to support
me, and to grant me once mere the Priviledges which
I had forfeited among his House and People; He also visit
ed me often in my Afflictions. Our dear Lord gave us
a Son; and with him he gave me also a look of Grace.
Thro' Sicknesses, Troubles of various kinds, Distresses and
Disappointments, I became in my heart and Inclinations
quite weaned from the things of this Life; and humbly


entreated my Saviour to be so merciful as to unite
me once more to his Congn, whom I had grieved and offended
and to pardon all my past Offences, by the cleansing
Virtue of his precious Blood. And after various
applications, I was readmitted as a member of the Congn
March 28th 1790, of which our kind Saviour gave me a
previous feeling. The Text of the day was particularly
impressive on my Mind: Thy People shall be my People,
and thy God shall be my God, which I felt sealed in my
heart with an amen from above. The 6th of June following,
I partook again of the holy Communion, after missing
it 20 Years, with a bowed and thanful heart. When I
now look at the 45 years that are past, I can trace the
finger of the Lord thro' the darkest Dispensation, in order
that I might attain to the Knowledge of my dreadfully
corrupted heart.  My sincere hearts Ejaculation now
is, that I may spend the remainder of my days in
humble fellowship with my Saviour and be prepared
by Him for the Fraction of eternal Joy and Happiness.
written in the year 1791.
We have reasons to believe, that her last Petition to
our dear Lord was granted to her, which her last short
but very painful Sickness evidenced: For she fervently
long'd to see the end of her days and to be with Jesus
Christ our Lord and Saviour.


