Personalia of the late Sr Ann Hill
She herself has left the following Acct but without Date,
and probably was written a considerable Time ago.
I was born at Horsforth in the Parish of Guiseley April
29th 1700 & educated in the Church of England. I was under strong
Convictions from my Childhood, so that I often went & did not
know what would become of such a disobedient Child as I was. I
desired in my Heart to be brought into a better Situation, & that I
might not as often grieve such a good natured Mother as I had.
I said often, from the Ground of my Heart, what will become of me
for I am naughty & know nothing. My Mother frequently caused
religious Books & Sermons to be read in our House, one of which
was all concerning the Sufferings of my own Lord Jesus. This Book
mentioning so much of Blood & unutterable Sufferings 
that I was quite struck in the Ground of my Heart. I asked
my Mother who this was that suffered all these Things & wept ex
ceedingly. She said it was a holy prophet whom the Jews had used
so barbarously; that we had no hand in it & that I had no Occasion
to weep so, but this Answer did not satisfy me
& I remained in great Heaviness & my Heart did throb exceedingly.
I wanted to see this Book again but my Mother would not let me
have it as it affected me so much. I was then about 10 Years of Age.
I continued to be deeply concerned at Times about my Soul. In my
19th Year I mard. against my Mother's will, which afterwards also
gave me much Concern, but such a poor miserable Wretch was I
at that time that I was resolved to do let the Consequences be what
they would; but my own dear Lamb who had pursued me from
my Infancy, continued to lay heavy Convictions upon me that I
might be brought to Him. When Mr Ingham begun to preach
I was one of his Hearers & was stirred to such Salvation most ear
nestly, & being once almost distracted on Account of Sin & guilt, a


"Voice sounded in my He art which said: All the Sins thou hast
committed are forgiven thee. I was recd into the
Brethren's Society in the Year 1743 and into the Congn March 2d
1750. Being once in great Anguish, the Voice again sounded in
my Heart & said: keep close to me & thou shalt see that I will al
ways help thee, I was still not to fully satisfied as I wanted to
be & was in very great Trouble at Times & often cried out: Who will
deliver me from this hellish pain! And in this Situation I was
when our Savr appeared to me with those Stripes which He bore, &
in his Sufferings and Blood. He then cleansed me with his
Blood, and my Heart melted before him. Then I was set at Liberty
and enabled to cleave entirely to Him. This was about the Year
I was recd into his Congn March the 2d 1750
1749. My dear Savr was been to good to such poor Sinner as I am
that I can never praise him enough. Oh what a Savr He is! I now
love Him above all Things. I also love my dear Brn & Srs very
much. Oh how thankful am I that my good Lamb has brought me
among them, & it is He himself that has done it. If He had not a Love
to the Worst of Sinners, He never would have had Mercy upon me.
Oh what a great Thing it is to me that He has received me & given
me to see his Congn in the true Light, to be joined to which makes
my very Heart rejoice. Now I beg Him to make me just as He
would have me to be in all Things. He has carried me hitherto
with Blessings unutterable. My Lord & my Lover all Thanks
be given unto Thee for what thou last done for me wretched
Sinner. Thou hast said, that whatever we ask according to thy
Will, thou will hear us & grant our Request. I beg thee to bless
my Husband & Children; & thou will do it. Thou will keep my
Husband so long till thou canst shew Mercy unto him. Oh thy
Mercy and Kindness is exceeding great towards me." So for
her own Account.
She was admitted to the holy Communion with the Congn
June the 21st 1751. Her Marriage was blest with 2 Sons and 6


Daughters, 3 Daughters are still living one of whom is a S Sr.
in London. She took such Delight in being present with the Congn
that no Weather could prevent her from coming constantly hither
even while she lived (at Raden) some Miles from hence; but of
late Years she has lived nearer the Hall & could come more easily
to the Meetings. She seemed to have an unlimitted Confidence
in our Savr, of whom & his goodness to her she always spoke in strong Terms, that it
even appeared to some as if her Declarations on this Head
were not always from a real Experience, however she remained
unalterable herein to her last Moment, that there was no Room
to doubt of her being in a true Connexion with our Savr. She
has been infirm for some Time. Her Husband departed chearful
ly to our Savr 10 Days before her, after which, weak as she was,
she wished to be taken into the Widows Choir House, but upon
Sr Cammerhoff's speaking with her on that Head she was content
ed. She was frequently visited by Sr Cammerhoff to her Comfort,
& was constantly looking out & earnestly desiring for the
Coming of our Savr, who took her Gently & happily to Himself
the 15th of Decr 1770 at 7 o'Clock in the Morning in the 71st
Year of her Age.


