Memoir
of
the late Sister Anne Hoch
who
departed this life April 23rd 1848


Owing to the unconsciouness of our dear
departed parent during her illness, we have
been unable to elicit from her any facts
relative to her past life. The brief memoir
therefore, which it is customary to communicate
on such are occasion must necessarily be
brief & incomplete and in some measure assisted
by conjecture.
But if the death of his saints be precious in
the sight of the Lord their memory surely
will be precious in the sight his people
however short brief and imperfect be the memorial.
Our late parent was born at Blackly
near Manchester, of parents unconnected
with the Brn's Church, but certainly religious
people, from whom she first received those
impressions which eventually
proved so lasting. But hearing of a


people in the neighbourhood, who made
religion more their daily employment,
she was inspired with the earnest desire
to join that people and to make their
God her God. With this intent she visited
Fairfield and met so kind a welcome
that she at once applied for and obtained
a connection with the Brns Church.
In taking this step she knew she was
a dutiful daughter
robbing her parents of their first joy
kind parents and
and herself of worldly advantage, but
more of these things moved her, for she
saw other parentage & brighter envolvement
opening to her.
In summer of
About the year 1808 she removed from
Fairfield to Fulnec, where she was
engaged as teacher in the Ladies school.
Here her devotion to the cause of Christ
assumed a higher cast, for from this place
she accompanied our late Father


to the altar, determining with him
?? into ye services of the Lord  & her
to follow the fortunes of the cross & to Church
live and die if necessary under its the
banner of the cross.
Their first call to missionary labour
was to Antigua about the year 1812,
from whence, after a service of about
seven years they returned to England
bringing a son with them. Him, the
object of so much solicitude they placed
in the boys school at Fulnec, and left
for Jamaica little dreaming of the
melancholy sequel - the boy died!
Bitterly they felt the bereavement, but
found strong consolation in the God they
served, to whom they knew he had gone.
Two other losses of the same kind followed
another son & a daughter. On their
subsequent return to England for the
purpose of recruiting their health they
left two sons in Fulnec and


and departed for St. Kitts in 1826.
Here another son was born, whom in
due time they also brought to the school
in this place and then rested from their
missionary labours.
In the year 1840 her beloved partner
departed this life, since which she has
made it her constant employment to
benefit the spiritual & bodily condition
of the poor in the neighbourhood, who will
feel her loss greatly. In 1844, she undertook
a journey to Switzerland for the purpose
of affording her youngest son suitable em
ployment in a country more congenial
to his health; & after a stay of about a
year she returned to Fulnec invigorated
both in body and mind. She still continued
her labour among the poor and lent her
aid in behalf the Bible Society in the
neighbourhood to which she devoted
herself most faithfully till illness


compelled her to keep to her room.
Several weeks before she was confined
to her bed, her memory had begun to fail,
but later she found it impossible to re
member even the names of her visitors,
still however she had a blessed perception
of the presence of her Saviour, whom
she constantly extolled, and whose
name she often lisped when labouring
under the effects of delirium.
Till April 20th she was favoured with
lucid intervals and enjoyed at such
times the chapters from the Holy Scriptures
read to her and the prayers offered up
at her bed side by her the minister (of the
place) and another kind friend who
visited her. She likewise partook
of the Holy Communion with great
edification to herself.


On Friday and Saturday she slept
nearly the whole time labouring under
a great difficulty of breathing &
at half past four on Easter Sunday
morning her ransomed spirit took
its flight without struggle to
the mansions of the Blessed.


Our late Sr as appears from this
memoir, has spent many years of
her life in Fulnec, in this single, marrd
& widowed state, & throughout the
whole of that long period, & in all
these & other different relations, has
approved herself a Child of God, anxi
ous to be useful serve her Savr & to
be useful in her day & generation;
a faithful & devoted wife, a very
affectionate mother, anxious to bring
up her sons in the fear of the Lord &
to inculcate Christian principles &
good habits & an active & zealous
handmaid of the Lord, not only
when she was engaged in his ser
vice in the W. India missr but
during her residence here as a
Teacher in our Girls' Boarding
School & after her return with
her late husband, in private life,
she was active & useful in visiting
especially the sick & poor in the neighborhood,
& as a collector for our Bible associ
ation, never growing weary in that
good work. X
The disease which terminated
in her happy departure lay princi
pally in the brain, whence she
was, very often, more or less delirious,
yet even her ramblings clearly
showed that her soul was constant


ly engaged with the best things, &
her affections fixed on Him whom
her soul loved. She had many lucid inter
vals, however & then expressed, in
the most distinct terms, not
only a firm, unwavering assurance
of salvation, but a sweet & edify
ing resignation to her Saviour's
perfect will, being as ready to
return into her blessed activity
in his service as to depart & to
be with Him. About a fortnight
before her end, she asked if it was were
Easter Sunday morning? when
told it was not, she replied: "O
what a glorious morning will
that be!" It is remarkable that
she fell gently asleep in Jesus
on the early on that day great festival of ye Church
During In her ramblings she
frequently spoke of the H Comn
& expressed a wish to enjoy it
once more, when she was sensible
As she was perfectly collected
on Monday morning 17th visit
it was administered to her dur
ing a powerful sense of our
Savrs presence & afterwards
the blessing of the Lord & the Congn
for her departure was pronounced
over her. Tho' very weak, she said
she had had a truly blessed enjoy


meant, it appeared to be to her an
antipast of the Lamb's feast above.
Of course she was very desirous,
& often instant in prayer & sup
lication that her sons visit be
tween children of God & devoted 
Servants of the Lord, treading
in their parents' footsteps: doubt
less the most fervant of her last
petitions were for them; near
they be graciously & abundantly
answered!
She likewise faithfully instruc
ted, in her turn, the senior class
in our Girls' Sunday School, the
Scholars in which have just shown
their love & gratitude for the pains
she took to lead them to the great
Friend of children by attending the
funeral & following her remains
to the grave.


