The course of Life of the Single Sister Hanh Horsefield. Concering which
she writes as follows.
I was Born July ye 29th 1751 at Brigghouse.
in the Parish of Hallifax. My Parrents not being Religiously inclin'd
themselves, never gave me the opportunity to go to church, or atend any Religious
Service there, but my Elder Sistrs telling me once, that the Devil wou'd
certainly have me, if I did not know God & love Him, their Strange manner
of speaking, brought me upon thoughts that there was a God, & then how I
shou'd come to know him, & hearing a Neighbour Woman speak of God
I resolv'd to go to church with her & thought perhaps I might get to hear
something there also, & so accordingly went with for to the Quaker's meetings,
and us'd to atend Prayors with Her at a Private House, but had no Impression
from what I heard at that time, scare knowing for what I went, some time after
my Uncle who was with the Brn, Married, & by the request of my Aunts Mother
promis'd to take me as their own Child, & wanted me to go & live with them,
which I cou'd not obtain leave for from my Parrents at first, tho I often went
to see them, & at last happily got leave to go & live with them intirely. I came
with them to the meetings which I lik'd very much, & got leave to be taken
amongst tho great girls, which was a great pleasure to me. I went on for
Some years in an Indiferent way, tho' not without convictions, & at times
had a desire to become our Savrs- but had not sufficient resolution to settle
which way to turn. Upon hearing some girls speak together once about
coming to live in the Choir House, it put me upon thoughts about the
same, & I begun to have a real desire to come & live amonst the Sistrs.
which desire I also made known to my Uncle & Aunt. but my Uncle made
many objections to it, & told me He wou'd not help me to get necessary
things for my coming, thinking my motive was, that I might have it easier
among the Sistrs. but my Aunt porciving that I was heavy on this
account & knowing at the same time the situation of mind I was in, told
me that my Uncle did it merely & alone, to try how far I realy was in
earnest, & wanted me rightly to consider the importance of the Matter,
before I enter'd upon it, this was a great comfort to me. however this lasting
a good while & I cou'd not be sure wethor I shou'd have leave to go to


the Choir House not, I at last resolv'd to try the world, & leave the Congn intirely.
My Choir Labress had also lost all hopes of my ever ataining any thing real in my
heart, & therefore let me alone thinking I should take my full fling in the World.
but Sistr Connick, coming about this time to Wyke to Visit the Sistrs & Girls there.
Sought me out, & entering into conversation with me about the state of my heart,
She told me she was clear in it that my call & destination was to be amongst
our Savrs People, & that I should also live amongst the Sistrs; this caus'd me
to come to a Solid recolection, & I thought how far I had deviated from the
Convictions I had rece'd from our Savr, & began again to be in earnest, &
pray'd our Savr to lead me into the right path again & afterwards came
to a full determination to pursue my call. accordingly I made my mind
known to my Labross, & in a Short time after Obtain'd my request, as
also the Consent of my Uncle.
Thus far our happily disceased Sistrs own account.
Our late Sistr in Consequence of the permission granted Her, came into the
Choir House there in Fullneck. Octr ye 1st 1765. where she was verry soon
at home among her Room Companions. & Conducted herself as one who
was sincerely concern'd to come thro' in an orderly manner amongst the Sistrs
as also to injoy the graces & privileges of the Congn & her Choir to a true
and real Blessing for her own heart. May ye 4 1769 The was rec'd
into the single Sistrs Choir. & June 19 became a Member of the Congn by Recept
to Her great Joy. & admitted Canditate for the Holy Comn March 24 1770
after which time She became more solidly & earnestly concern'd, for a full
manifestation of our dr Savr to her heart, as also for the real forgiveness
of all her Sins in His Blood, about which She was for some time verry
uneasy, being in herself of an anxious & reserved disposition, She did
not rest till He graciously drew near her heart, & gave her the full
assurance of his daily rich forgiveness, whereby she became more chear
and learn'd to rely upon Him and His Merits as a poor Sinner that 
found Grace in His Sight.


Dec 1st 1770 She was made a participant of our dr Lords Body & Blood in the
Holy Sacrament for the first time, to Her inexprssible Joy & abasement, her
sincere atachment to our dr Savr Person, & the feeling sence of her own poverty,
made her call & Election of Grace of the greatest importance to her, which
visibly appear'd, midst all faults & failings occasion'd or by owning to her otherwise frettfull
turn of mind, towards the Spring of the year 1774. She began porceptibly
to decline, & feeling herself gradually declining & apprehensive of a lingering
illness caus'd her some pain, all mean's usd to restore her proving inefectual
& growing weaker, She was oblig'd to take to the Sickroom, the Augst following
where at the first it was still not quite clear to her that she shou'd go
home at this time, or at least that her time wou'd be long, the Sistrs about
her comforted her by asuring her that our Savr who knew what was best for her
wou'd support & help her till, & at the last Moments, about which she express'd
Some anxious concern. but as her illness increasd She grew more resign'd, easy &
clear, & being asur'd in her own heart that our Savr would by means of
this sickness prepare her for himself, she lost all her former anxiety
& rejoiced in hopes of seeing Him soon. the Holy Sacrament which She
injoy'd every time the Congn partook thereof, during her abode in the sickroom,
was a great Blessing & Strengthening cordial to Her heart, in her great weakness
which daily increased towards the latter and Her fancy's in her Slumbers' were
like a Child, seeing our Savr & desireing Him to take her with Him, & thus
conversing with Him Sleeping & waking. She spent her time in a Chearfull &
longing expectation of the happy hour of Her departure, which came to pass
April 29. When being quite present to herself, She spoke with the greatest Chearfullness
to a Person who Visited her of the happy situation of a heart sencible of the
nearest approach of Her beloved Savr, with a particularly lively feeling of His
nearness. about half an hour after Her Joy was completed when She went
over into the Arms of Her Redeemer, accompany'd with the Blessing of Her
Choir. about nine o Clock in the forenoon: in the 24 year of Her Age


