our Late Sr Mary Horsman was so
well known in Fulneck that very little
of anything new can be related of her
She was born of respectable Parents
her Father being a tradesman in
Leeds where Mary was born & baptized
in the parish Church of Sr Johas Peter
in the yr 1795. After the death of her
Parents having thro' a friend heard
of the Sr House in Fulneck she
in 1820 made application for admission and
subsequently became a member of
the Ch of the Brn & during the minis-
try of our late Br Ramftler was ac-
tively employed in the Sunday school.
About the yr 1826 it pleased the
Lord to effect her with disease of the


spine the consequence of a fall down
a flight of steps in the Srs House
her suffering was often very great
& added to the loss of some little property
left to her by her Father her her circumstances
were indeed to almost entire depend-
ance on the kindness & affection of
her companions & friends. nor did 
her Heavenly Father permit her
to ??? in vain but supplied her
every need throughout her painful
pigrimage tho' her naturaly lively and in-
dependant spirit often tempted him
to believe his dealings hard with
her yet at other times could she clearly
perceive the loving kindness of


her Saviour in thus affecting her -- 
her patient bearing proved an edifi-
catoin to some who in later yrs visited
how sick chamber. her kindest cheerfull
temper endeared her to the more youth-
ful members of the family & the re-
membrance of her will not soon be forgotten
about 6 or 8 weeks a so being quite alone
& walking across the room her strength
gave way & she fell -- from that time
she evidently declined & many times
express'd a desire to depart & be with 
her Saviour. yet several believed that
Years were still before her - a fortnight
ago Influenza hold fastened on her
tender frame & she was wholly confined
to her bed, but no serious alarm


took place in the minds of her friends
in general. tho' her sufferings much
pained those who so affectionately mind
her. On tuesday the 27th she was
comforted by the visit & prayers of her
Minister to whom she was much
Attach'd -- in the afternoon a just
change in her appearance & inability
to swallow was perceived o& at a 1/4
past six oC. in the evening to
the amazement of all around her
her ??? Soul took its flight
to the arms of Jesus in the 60th
year of her age.


