The Course of Life of our late Sr
Lydia How's
I was Born in Pudsey in the Parish of Coverly, in the 
Year 176446. My Parents belonging to ye Brn they
sent me on my Birthday Decr 5th being 3 years Old,
Accompani'd by some Srs to the Childrens Oeconomy at
Mileend. I began to take Notice, that the Srs  & Children
used to tell how well they had felt at the Meetings, this I
began to be heavy about, wondering how it was that I went
also to the Meetings, & very often knew not a word that
was said, muchless to take any thing into Serious Consideration:
I however pray'd our Savr. in A Childlike way, to give me
a feeling of His dying Love in my Heart, in order to render
me able to take in what I heard to an abiding Blessing.
This request He as the Childrens friend took notice of & granted
the desire of my heart. from that time whenever I whent
to a meeting it was to me as if I had never heard any
thing, the like before. As a Child I felt in my degree
the effects of the fall! Pride, & I self love was often
A plague to me, I did not like to be found fault with:
Yet amidst all, I cant but look back with pleasure on
My Childrens Years, for I often enjoy'd A Childlike
connection with my dear Savr. In the Year 1752
if pleas'd our Savr to take my dear Papa home to
Himself; & 2 years after my dear Mama also,
My Sisr. & I was left in the care of the late Br
Charlseworth who has in all respects, acted like a
true Farther to us.


In the year 1755 I with the Oeconomy mov'd to Fulneck
this was indeed a new School for me: as I grew Older, I often
felt how needfull it was to remain a poor Sinr, before
our Savr & each one else I was not one that was found much
fault with, therefore in my own breast I had many A Struggle
with the Pride that lay there, which no one knew of; as I
kept things pretty close to myself. March 25th 1760 I was
Recd. into the Great Girls Choir, previous to which I kept a
hearty band with our Savr intreating Him to take me
anew & Seal me as His own against every evil I shou'd feel
liable to as a poor human Creature. I indeed whent on for
some time in a true happy intercourse with my best friend.
Augst 13th. the same Year, I was Recd. into the Congregation.
soon after this I became very dark & Gloomy, which I own
I had no need for; as it was a time when our Savr intended
to bring me throughly acquainted with my self, but instead
of casting myself on His mercy, who surely lets all things
turn out for good, to those that confide in Him, I strove
against my dear Savr.  & His Spirit, yea against all
convictions not being willing to feel so bad as I was, but
did all that I coul'd to harbour pleasing Ideas: for
I was frightned with myself thinking no one ever
felt the like therefore I kept it all to myself, & our
Savr, at that time cou'd not attain his aim with me
& therefore I went on for some time as tho' harden'd.
Novr. 8th 1762 I came out of the Childns. Oeconomy to
live in the Choir House, this was indeed quite a new
School for me I went on for some time in a very legal
way, knowing I was not as I should be.


I did my best to mend, but all prov'd vain. our Savr
wanted to strip me of my self made holiness, which
was a constant Snare in my course, my Labouress often
told me. I was thought on for ye holy Commn., but our Savr.
gave me no leave, this caus'd me often to search into my
heart wanting to findout the reason: but that clearness
betwixt me & my, wounded friend was not rightly establish'd,
therefore in my best endeavours I found many stumbling block's
I went on along time in this way, often uneasey knowing
I was not right & realy was blind, to that which was my greatest
hindrance, In the year 1764 after the general Synod, I felt
a new stiring of Grace, tho' I did not go to ye Commn I felt I
was a Limb of Christ: Body & at the same time felt I stood
in need of His Chastizements. When the Congn, therefore had
not leave to go to ye Comm. felt more then words can
describe, feeling my dear Savr & the holy ghost very busey
also in my heart, inorder to take away what was not
According to the Heart of Jesus: & to make me to his Hearts
pleasure in this World. I always felt it in the bottom of my
heart, that my Savr orderd it by Grace so free! I shou'd
A happy Creature be: & it was impress'd on my mind not
to be satisfi'd, till I felt true pardoning peace, seal'd to
my poor heart, as an undeserving Sinr., the Convictions of
ye. H:Ghost, always followed me, & from that time I felt
that our Savr, had aright to Claim me as his property,
March 16th 1765 as I was setting in A Room by my self
it was as if the Door to my misery was open'd & I saw my
self in such alight as I cou'd never have inagin'd any
One to have been in.


I derectly felt a conviction not to stifle this feeling,
for our Savrs. aim was to bring me to a through
knowledge of myself & of his unbounded mercy
I went on for some time very uneasy Night & Day
Our Savr left me awhile, not leting me feel any
real Comfort from Him: Indeed it when went so far with
me, that I thought I had trifel'd so long with my
Savrs. Grace that He had quite forsaken me. In this
distress I took the great Hymn Book, in order to open
myself averse & Accordingly I open'd between these
2 Verses.
1st
Sometimes He his assistance,
Does not directly show:
But acts as if at Distance,
He stood, & purposd so,
to let things go at random,
And be no more thy God;
Thee rather to Abandon,
To strugle with thy load.
~~~
Yet if He but discover
That thou art faithfull still,
When least thou hopes that favour
He extracate thee will:
Thy Heart shall get exemplion,
From that oppression sore,
Which from no Ill intention
It for of Season Bore.
 These Verses struck me so, that I lay'd the Book down
& weept for some time; they was were a great Encouragement
to me, as I took them as from the Mouth of my dr Savr
who for alittle was withdrawn from me.


 The next Night when I whent to Bed I felt very
heavy intreating our Savr, to have mercy on me.
That Heart which to the Naked poor & Blind,
knows more to speak than Mother to her Child:
cou'd not withhold his Grace, but assure me with apardoning
Kiss, that I was his Blood bought property. What a time
that was, I cant describe: when we thuse togeather met.
A thousand thanks to my dr Savr for my happy
Destination to be apoor Sinner: at that time I felt
clearly that Mighty power, which lies in true poverty
of spirit, & true Oppenheartedness commenced. The
Month following I was made Candidate for the holy,
Commn, which was such agreat blessing to me as
I can never describe in words, On ye 4th of May I was
Recd. into the Srs Choir which was anew School to me
& the 27th of March following I partook of my Lords Body
& blood for ye first time in the Holy Sacrament, this
long wish'd for Grace prov'd such strength^ning good to my poor Heart
as words can ne'er describe, not withstanding I often felt
my ^own. Spirit get the upperhand to hinder our Saviours work
of Grace. as soon as I could openheartedly speak my
mind to my dr Labourer, She did her utmost to help
me, in derecting me to my dr Savr whose peircing Eyes
Puts selflove to the rack,
And does expose self praise,
But no strickt vien does take,
Of fault & Weaknesses
Thanks be to my dr Sr, who has made me apartaker
of the blessings He has merrited for me & his poor Children


on Earth, & that at the appointed hour I can go with Joy
to meet my Bridegroom. O wert thou not exactly such a Savr,
What shou'd I do!
 Thuse far her own words.
Our late departed Sr was from her Birth of a weakly
Constitution, & a peculiar attention to her diet was required
to assist her lively Spirit, to bearabout bear up under a tabernacle, which
became almost, insupportable many Mounths before her
Dissolution which however was rendered bearable, thro' the tho' her choir. companions did all in their power ot make it
bearable to her thro' their kind Assistance- Kind assistance of Her Choir Companions  During the course
of several years spent among us, She gave many proofs
in her walk & Conversation of a Childlike happy Connection
with Her Souls Bridegroom, tho' She often accus'd herself,
of not makeing so good use of the can & Nursing of the
Holy Spirit as She might have done! We have observ'd
that she carefully Avoided all unprofitable Conversation
with all those who were of an unintire mind; and was
openhearted with her Labourrers who felt many lively
Testimonies of the Grace She enjoy'd in Her Dayly Course,
She willingly assisted in all things to the best of Her power
Yea her faithfullness went often further than Her Bodily
Curcumstansces wou'd admit. She had many paraxysms
of a nervous Cramp, which seiz'd Her often so strongly,
that to appearance they were like to take Her Life; which
were so often repeated, that they weakned Her Constitution
so much, that in the beginning of Spring this year, She
was obbleig'd to take wholly to the Sick Room: In which
place She had for 2 or 3 years past at intervals been in
& out.. In Jan:y She partook of the H: Sacrement, with
the Congregation.


after which She kept a hearty Band with Her Laboures.
telling her how great Her poverty was, & that what our faithfull
Savr had bestow'd upon Her at this last Commn was quite
inexprssible, & that hereby Her whole perplexety which She
hitherto had felt when thinking of leaving, this World, was
chang'd so much, that She deser'd nothing more ardently
than to be with our Savr after this She took more to Her Bed
& Her natural faculties became weaker & weaker.
being, sorely afflicted with a Cough, Accompanied with a
nervous Fever, which agitated her mind so powerfully, that she
came into a strange Delirum, & having once in a Slumber
a peculiar Dream in which She got an Impression, as it
Her dr Savr wou'd not admit her into His presence; this
together with a Consciousness of Her unworthyness, & thinking of-
not having made the best use of the Connection She might
have enjoy'd with Her dr. Redeemer; wrought the thought on Her
mind that there was nor help for Her, She must be Lost.
thinking she had all the while been a hyppocrite. Thuse She
sank quite into adeep Melancholy, & wou'd from that time admit
of no Comfort, not of any Conversation at all with any of the Sr
even not of those who before had been Her most intimate friends.
this caus'd a painfull sensation & many anxious hours to Her
laboures & Choir Companions, who did all in their power to comfort
& encourage Her to look to Her best friend & Savr but all in vain.
this her dark & sullen disposition continued till ye last Day:
when She became more lively & friendly, testifying, that She long'
much for to be with our Savr & thanking all about her for what they
had done for Her, on which Day May 13th 1773 She unexpectedly with
soft & gentle breathing closed the period of Her Life! which lasted 26 years


