The S Sr Hannah Hutchinson, who departed
April 4th 1810 at Fulneck, was born at
Littemoor near Pudsey Nov. 22. 1784
From her childhood she attended with her
Mother and Sister the preachings here in Fulneck
and by that means got a desire, to live in the 
Brns Congn In July 1800 she obtained leave,
to become an inhabitant of the Sisters house
here Tho' she was of a reserved turn yet it
could be observed, that it was her consern both
to learn to know herself as a poor sinful being
and also the healing and sanctifying virtue
of Jesus' blood. In March 1803 she was recd
into Congn and May the 4 followg into the S
Srs Choir which oppertunities proved a blessing
to her heart, and an encouragement to devote
herself with soul and body to our Savour as his
Dear bought property
In autumn the same year she was seized with
a bad fever, which brought her so low, that
she was not expected to recover again, nor did
she expect it hersalf, but was quite resegned
to our Saviours will; however the means used
for her recovery proved effectual thro' the
Lord's blessing. March 29th 1804 she


partook the first time of the H Comn and 
rec.d a special blessing on that occasion
After this she spent 2 years in a happy and
comfortable way; but in the years 1806 meet
ing with troubles of various kinds she was
thereby much affected in soul and Body, and 
grew so poorly, that it was feared, she whold
fall into a decline; on which account
she went for some time to her Parents
house to be nursed. On this occasion like
wise our Saviour proved her kind Physician
both in Soul and Body, and she recoverd
her health and chearfulness. She often
spoke of that period with many tears,
and would express herself to this effect:
Our Saviour alone knows, what I have
had to feel. Tho' I was sure, that I had
obtained pardoning grace in our Savior's
blood and that my sins and transgressions
were forgiven, yet it was as if I could fin
no help, and being of a high Spirit and 
not willing to humble myself. I even re


solved in my mind to leave the Congn
But thanks, eternal thanks to him who
held his hand over me in all trials and
temptations, and proved my Counselor
and faithful friend. In January 1807
she was appointed a Teacher in our Boardg
School nch, she served with faithfulness till
December 1809, and was beloved and re
pected by the children commited to her 
care. Finding herselfe again in a poor
state of health, she asked permission
to leave the School, and went again to her
Parents Altho' she had a secret intimation
that this sickness would terminate in 
her happy dissolution, yet now & then
she conceived a hope, that she would
recover. Some uneasiness which had oc
curred sometime before, at first desturbed
her mind; but she was inabled to forget
the things behind & obtained that comfort
able assurance, that our Saviour had par
doned her for ever thing, & she could


leave this world in peace with every body.
Her cough & other complaints, which she
bore with petience, increasing more & more,
she longed for the time of her desolution.
March 31 she injoyed the H. Comn for
the last time, which proved a great
blessing & comfort to her; In Gratitute
for the tender care which her Parents
took of her, she prayed that our Savior
would richly bless & comfort them.
Her last declarations concerning herself
are contained in that hymn: Thy
thoughts of peace & H B. N. 387.
which she also wished to be sung
at Her funeral. Apr 2d Br Benade
at her request prayed once more with 
her during a blessed feeling of our
Saviours presence, & on the 4th early
in the morning it pleased our Sa
viour to call her into her eternal rest.
Aged 25 years 4 months & 11 days.


