Memoir of the Widow Sister Elizabeth Johnson, m.n.
Halliday, who departed this life, at Fulneck
on Tuesday, November the 6th 1866.
Our late Sister Elizabeth Johnson, m.n. Halliday,
was born (in Pudsey) on August the 1st 1796 (x) where also
she spent her childhood and early youth in connection
with the Independents. She attended the S. School and
the public services in the Independent Chapel very re
gularly, but we have no evidence of any very serious
or abiding impressions of a spiritual nature having
been made upon her saying heart beyond the fact, in
itself a privilege and a blessing, of her having been brought up in
the nurture and admontion of the Lord. When only in between
17 & 18 her 18th years old, she received & accepted in the year 1813
an offer of marriage from her late husband
William Johnson, whose parents were
members of the
Brethren's Church
& who himself
had been a ? Scholar at Fulneck, where he occasionally attended to public services.
was not quite 18 years old at the time.
extending over a period of about 24 rather more than 23 years, from the
end of 1813 to April 1837; was blessed by the birth of several two
sons and two daughters, to all and each of whom our late Sister
proved a very tender and affectionate mother. From
the Memoir of her late husband we learn, that their marrd.
life, especially when the cases of a family increased, was
not without its trouble and occasional struggles for
their honest maintenance. The husband, during the
early years of their union, attended the services in our
Chapel here, whenever he did go to any place of worship; which however
at that time, was
not a regular
practice with
him.
while the young wife and mother for sometime conti
ued to frequent, as often as her circumstances permitted
the Independent Chapel. After some time, however, they
jointly began to go to Fulneck more regularly, and not
without real spiritual benefit. The death of a near relative
proved the immediate cause of their own real awakening
to God & spiritual things, and led them, in due time, to
apply for Society fellowship with the Brethren. For some


Sr Johnson was born in
Pudsey Augst 1796
Married to Br Johnson 1813
his father & mother were members
of Fulneck Congn. She was
brought up among the Disenters
Br & Sr Johnson were both
awakened under the cottage
lectures, which Br Ramftler
held in Pudsey. They attended
our Chapel in Fulneck but did
not at first feel freedom to
join our Church, but after
a sermon of Br Ramftler's on
the text "Because thou are
lukewarm & neither cold nor
hot I will speec thee out of my
mouth" on going home
Br Johnson said to his wife


"Now my mind is made up
& we will go tomorrow, & express
our wish to be closely joined to
the Brn & give ourselves up to
the Lord. 
While Sr J was deeply impressed,
& anxious to feel greater
clearness in her mind of
her acceptance with our Saviour,
she lay one night awake
in earnest prayer, when
all at once, that text "Arise
thine for thy light is come
& the glory of the Lord is risen
upon thee" was so vividly
presented to her mind, that
it was as if she heard a
voice repeating them. She
immediately arose & cast
herself upon her knees, &
felt aroused that the Lord
had heard her prayer &


accepted her as his property.
They came to live in Fulneck
in 1826 or 7 for Br Johnson
to have the management of
the cloth business belonging to
the Brns house.
Br Johnson departed in 1836
They had four children
two sons & two daughters
three of whom are still
living.
One son departed soon after
his father. He was still very
young but had been a
great comfort to his mother
by his simple childlike
manners & little saying
concerning his love to our
Saviour.
Sr Johnson was seized with
her last illness on Wednesday


the 31st Oct. Her excessive weakness
prevented her saying much, but
she answerd those around her
that she felt her Saviour was
with her & would receive her.
She departed on Tuesday the
7th Novr.


time they now had a Prayer Meeting in their house once
a fortnight, on Thursday Evening, which proved a great
blessing to their souls and increased their attachment
to the Brethren's Church; as the Brn. for Fulneck, conducted these
meetings with great punctuality and earnestness. The
discourses of Br Ramftler were specially brought home
with benefit to their hearts. (x) In the year 1824, on Palm
Sunday, both were confirmed and then became Comunicants
of the Fulneck Congregation. (They were soon after
She was then
that Brn's
Labourer
appointed Chapel servants.) In 1826 they removed fr.
Pudsey to Fulneck as Br Johnson undertook at Br.
Libbey's request, the management of the Cloth business
in connection with the Brethren's house. In this office
Br. Johnson continued to labour diligently and faithfully
until his death, in the year 1836. Br. & Sr. Johnson
removed to Fulneck on November this 5th 1826 and
A Sermon which Br. Ramftler preached at Fulneck on
the text: "Because thou are lukewarm and neither cold
nor hot, I will spare thee out if my mouth"; was so power
fully convincing and reproving to Br Johnson's mind
that on returning home he said to his wife, "Now my mind
is fully made up, and we will go to-morrow and express
our wish to give ourselves wholly to the Lord, and confess
him openly as our Saviour by becoming Communicant
members of to Brethren's Church. Our late Sister desired
to have for herself a greater clearness of her acceptance
with our Saviour, and was very anxious and perplexed
about this matter, making it a subject of repeated
earnest prayer. While thus wrestling one night in
her prayers with the Lord as she lay sleepless on her bed,
the text: "Arise, shine, for thy light is come, and the 
glory of the Lord is risen upon thee" was so vividly
presented to her mind, that it was as though she
heard a voice repeating these words to her. She imme
diately arose, and cast herself upon her knees, and


soon felt the comforting assurance, that
heard her petitions, and that she was accepted of him, as
his own bloodbought property. This cheered her
greatly, and ever after she was enabled to see in
Him and his finished work the foundation of her hope
and to ground of her acceptance with God!
so that our late Sister resided in the midst of this congre
gation for exactly 40 years, 10 as a married sister
and 30 years as a Widow. She was soon after their settling
at Fulneck in conjunction with her husband appointed a
Chapel servant and in the discharge of the duties of this
office invariably took a great delight, esteeming it a privilege
to be a door upon in the Lord's house. After the departure
of Sr. Sarah Lee, our late Sr. was appointed the Chief Chapel
servant on the Sisters' side. She continued faithful at her
post until the very day before her last illness, and her
hearty, cheerful manner on the very last evening she kept
at door of our Sanctuary here was remarked by several, who
conversed with her on that occasion.  On her apprec services in this
office will long be remembered by us with gratitude. She
was beloved and esteemed by all with whom in the discharge
her duties she came into more immediate contact.
Her firmness of character and fearless impartiality
coupled with kindliness of manner and pleasant good
nature secured for her the esteem of all.
The death of her dear husband, in 1836, in the prime of
his life, was indeed a heavy blow to her, and her troubles
at that time were greatly increased by sickness amongst
her children and the embarassments occasioned by her
business. She had wade through a deep sea of trouble
which seemed to reach it greatest depth when it
pleased his Lord to deprive her of her second son William
a boy of uncommon grace and ability who departed this life
the year after her husband's death. Had it not been for
the all-sufficient grace of Jesus, and had not His Strength
been made perfect in her weakness, she must have
been overwhelmed during those years with the accumu
lated weight of sorrow, bereavement & domestic troubles.


But the Lord approved himself in her experience also to
be a husband & a judge of the Widow. We have often heard
her advert to these dark & gloomy days, with heartfelt grati
tude to the Lord, while she never failed on these occasions to
remember the comfort she derived from the brotherly coun
sels and words of sympathy of dear Christian friends, more
especially of the Brn. Libbey & Kirkland.
For many years past she undertook to board & lodge
some of the pupils from a distance, whose parents were de
sirous of persuing for the Children the advantages of Br.
Edw. Sewell's Day School. The manner, in which she dis
charged her duties in this respect, may be best learned
from the grateful affection of with parents & pupils, with 
whom she thus has come into connection.
Had amonst
them she ever
found a heart
& hospitable
??? for
any time she
has able to
accept of their
frequent invi
tations to visit
them at their
own homes.
had the
spirit, in which she looked upon the boys under her care
we gather from a few lines in her own handwriting, found
among her papers, and entitled: To my School Boy (or
Girl.) "My dear, let me earnestly entreat You, to make
the very best use of Your time in any way You can. Be
diligent in Your books, upright for all Your conduct,
and seek the Lord's blessing, then You will fit Your
self for becoming a useful and good man, a
comfort to Your parents, who have been and ever
will be a dear father & a dear mother to You - and a
credit to Your home.
Our late Sister was not one of those, who spoke speak much
of their religious feelings & experiences, though when asked
by her Minister, she was ever ready feely to enter upon
a statement of her views & sentiments regarding religious spiritual
experiences in general, & the state of her own soul in particular.
She knew, in whom she believed; her trust was in Jesus, and
her hope in God. Only convinced of her sinfulness and un
worthiness she had both sought & found in Christ her Saviour
& her only Refuge. As an indication of the bent of her mind
& the feelings of her heart we can mention the fact, however
trifling it may appear to some, that amongst her papers in
a drawer to wh. she had almost daily access, we have found
several packages of choice hymns on flysheets or leaflets.


carefully pinned together, and containing such little hymns
as the following: "Rest for the Weary" - "The exile" - "Nearer Hour"
"As thou will" - "Speak Gently" And another: "Behold
the Lamb of God" - "The Changed Cross" and some lines of James
Montgomery on Searching the Scriptures. No careless
sinner will ever think of collecting these precious gems;
no thoughtless believer will ever trouble himself on herself with
saving by such choice treasures occasional private in
spection & comfort.
We neither need nor will say much about our late Sister
now; she has gone in and out amongst us for many
many years; & we have loved & respected her as a
follower of the Lamb, a consistent & attached member of
our church, a peaceful a kind neighbour, a sincere friend,
a faithful mother, and a tried Christian, who has borne
her many and varied afflictions with much patience
and resignation.
On Wednesday the 31st of Oct. she was suddenly taken unwell.
And through she felt considerably better for a day or two after,
it soon became apparent, that she had a been attacked by something more than mere
ordinary cold. On Saturday & Sunday she grew weaker
and weaker, and her dear friends justly became alarmed
about her. Her daughter, fr. Baildon arrived on Monday
and her granddaughter fr Gumersal, whom she had ever
loved and cared for with more than a mother's love, had
previously come over once more to see her; Throughout her
last illness she remained perfectly calm & resigned to her
Lord's will. on Monday afternoon When asked then she thought, that she would
 have to leave her friends, and go to our Saviour, she
answered unhesitatingly with a firm voice: Yes, and
being further asked, whether she felt his presence that Jesus was near
she answered. "Yes - very near." On the verse, Jesus, lover
of my Soul, let me to thy bosom fly - being repeated by one
her daughters she took up the words herself and with
much feeling repeated the latter part "Hide me & my Saviour
hide" and at the those utter a little pause proceeded: Other
refuge have more ??. On being pointedly asked,
Is this then Your refuge now, in the prospect of Your departure
she with emphasis said, Yes, it is, I have no other refuge


On Tuesday Morning, when she was still conscious of
all that was going on around her, and had given
several very satisfactory answers to the enquiries made
by her Minister about her hope of glory, she was so
lemnly blessed for her departure (in the presence of all
her surviving children and some of her grandchildren
her Choir Labourer and other friends & relatives, (with prayer and the
singing of a few verses.) About an hour before her
departure we once again kneeled down around
her bedside, and in earnest prayer commended
her departing spirit into the hands of Jesus Lord her Saviour
and shortly after, some after three o'cl, she gently
fell asleep in Jesus. Her age was 70 years 3 months
& 6 days.
However unexpected her removal from
amongst us after so short an illness, however painful
to her sorrowing children & grandchildren, we cannot
but see and acknowledge, that in her last illness a peace
ful end the Lord has verified & exemplified thro truth
of the Daily Word for the day of her departure: "The Lord
is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works."
Then murmur not, but be resigned
To his most holy will.
Peace, rest, & comfort thou will find,
My soul in being still.


