Memoir
of the Md Br Wm Johnson, who departed
at Fulneck April 12. 1837 Aged 41 years.
Our late Brother was born at Pudsey Febry. 1796
It was the constant endeavour of his parents
to instill into the minds of their children principles
of the strictest uprightness and rectitude of mo
ral conduct. Our late Brother experienced the
beneficial influence of this training even be
fore he became a subject of saving grace.
A malignant fever, with which five of the family
were affected at the same time, was the means
used by the Lord for awake the conversion of
his parents. During this season of affliction
the were faithfully visited by our late Br. Ramftler,
whose instructions were by the blessing of God made
effectual in convincing these of sin and their con
sequent need of a Saviour, and imparting unto
them true peace of mind by faith in the blood of
Christ. They had the joy to see two of their children
leave this world world in confident assurance
of eternal life. They themselves soon after joined
our Church.
When a boy our late Brother attended our
Sunday school, and after leaving it continued his


attendance of our chapel. At the early age
of eighteen years he married his now widowed
partner Elisabeth Halliday. For several years
after the cares of life and the difficulties & trials
connected with the maintenance of a family, ap
peared to have shocked the good seed of the Word,
which had been sown in his heart in early life.
Whenever, during this state of spiritual deadness
he attended any place of Worship it was that at
Fulneck; and when after his marriage he became
more regulur in his attendance, his predilection
for our mode of Worship was so great, that calls while
his wife continued to go to the Independent Mee
ting house in Pudsey, he came to our chapel.
The happy death of his brother, John, made a 
deep impression on his mind, and strengthened his
previous resolution of joining the people of God.
His wife having likewise begun regularly to
attend our chapel, than were both admitted to
our Society. At this time a Prayer meeting was
had once a fortnight at his house, in which he
took great delight at as a season of spiritual en
joyment, feeling like a weary traveller, who longs
for rest & refreshment to revive his drooping spirits
and recruit his strength
for pursuing his journey.


Soon after his becoming a member of our
Church his consistency as a follower of Jesus
was put to a severe test. One Satturday evening
his master requested him to assist his the other work
men in tentering a piece of cloth on Sunday
morning. He felt the difficulty into which
he was placed the more as his master has al
way been very kind to him, and who, he feared,
would be so much offended by a refusal, as to
take the work from him. After a little 
consideration he said to his mast employer
"Master, I will willingly work for you six days in
the week, but on the seventh I cannot." The
consequence was such as had been expected;
for his master was highly offended and dismis
sed him from his employ. Being then depri
ved of the means of earning a livelihood our
late Brother was thrown into no small perplexity.
Br. Ramfter, who just these paid him a visit, being
informed of the cause of his distress, commended
his conduct and encouraged him to put his trust
in the Lord, who when one door was shut, could
easily open another. A few days after his master took him
again to him into his employ. Then were the
words of our Saviour verified in the experience of
our late Brother, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God





and His righteousness; and all these things shall
be added unto you." It deserves to be mentioned
that several years after, when this master lay on
his death bed, his conduct towards our late Brother
caused him so much uneasiness, that he could not
be satisfied till he had disburthened his mind to him
for ??? weaknesses. He frankly acknowledged
that it lay with great weight on his mind, that he had 
tried to compel him our late Brother to sin against
God, and that be could not be pacified till he had
sent for him, and asked his forgiveness.
Regarding the work of the Holy Ghost in the
heart of our late Brother, when he became seriously
concerned for the salvation of his soul, Br. Libbey,
who enjoyed his unlimited confidence, has furnished
the following account:
"My acquaintance with our late Br. W. Johnson
commenced 14 or 13 or 14 years ago, about which
time the Lord was enlightening his mind and lea
 ding him to attend to the things which make for our
everlasting peace. The ministry of the late Br.
Ramftler was the means used by our Saviour
for awakening serious impressions in his mind,
and deepening his conviction of sin. He often
referred to the dark and gloomy state of his
mind at this period, and to the joy he experienced


as the light of the Gospel brought broke in upon his soul.
At a meeting which he attended The Hymn, "How lost was
my condition, till Jesus made me whole &c" which was sung
at a meeting he attended, afforded him much encourage
ment. He was enabled to believe, that the blood of atone
ment had been shed also for him, and that the Good
Physician would also look upon him in mercy, and
have all his diseases. The joy in the Lord, he then ex
perienced, was not altogether free from doubt and fear,
and from the spirit of legal self working, which caused
him to look more at himself and his vileness, than
at the great object set before him in the Gospel, the
Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world.
"While in bondage to this ??? spirit, he hesi
tated to accept the invitation of the Church, and feared
to obey the command of our Saviour, to commemorate
His death in the Holy Supper. 'I thought myself too bad,' said he,
'too unworthy and wished to feel myself better before
I presumed to sit down at the Lord's table.' He was
delivered from this unhappy state of mind by means
of a sermon on the words, addressed to the Church of
the Laodiceans, Because thou art luke warm and neither
cold nor hot I will spur thee out of my mouth. When
Describing his feelings under that sermon, he said "I
thought Br. Ramftler looked at me and sai addressed
me, thou art neither cold nor hot. I felt the justice
of the rebuke - my heart trembled, it burned, I
resolved no longer to hesitate, I covenanted with


with the Friend of my soul, that I would be His entire
property, and would seek to enjoy all the privileges
of His house." He did not content himself with
having formed the resolution, and then wait for a more
convenient season for executing it; but immediately
after the service went to the Minister, making the
request, to be admitted among the communicants
of the members of the Church.
"How greatly he prized this ordinance of the
Lord. Home is best known to those of his friends, who
witnessed his emotion whenever the Lord's Supper
was the subject of discourse. His religion, his faith
were was not of that inoperative kind, with which some
satisfy themselves. It was the inmost desire of his soul
that by the grace of God be might be kept from every
thing, which would hinder his enjoyment of the love
of Christ, or bring reproach on his profession.
The grace of God, by which had led him to the knowledge
of the way of salvation, had taught him, that denying
ungodliness and worldly lusts, he should live soberly
righteously and godly in this present world, looking
for that blessed hope and the the glorious appearing of the great
God even and our Saviour Jesus Christ." Hence arose
his fearfulness lest he should be led into temptation,
and act unfaithfully to the trust repared in him,
and that /as he expressed it/ the hand that had taken the
memorials of our Saviour's love, should take the


wages of dishonesty, or fraud. Hence as on his
earnest desire, that what he engaged to do might
prosper, hence the often repeated wish, that his cre
dit? might not lead his children astray. Being
sensible that all the blessing and success, which may
attend our labours came from God be evinced his thankfulness for
whenever he found that his honest endeavours in
business had been successful by saying, "It is the 
Lord's doing, it is not mine."
On Maundy Thursday 1824 he and his wife were ad
mitted to the H.C. At their previous confirmation, when
required to rectify his baptismal covenant by a solemn
out of self-dedication to the Lord, he repeated the verse;
Faithful to Thee I now engage
To be Throughout my pilgrimage
??? my life and soul, my King,
Pledge to thy service then I brings.
From what has been stated above, as well as from the
general tenour of his of his life, it is evident showed that he felt
the importance of the steps he had taken. Then came seri
ous and deliberate consideration marked his con
duct at the time of the reception into the congn of
himself and his wife in 1827. Hence was he en
abled by the grace of God to stand firm to the special
covenant with our Saviour and His chosen family,
of which this solemn site in our Church was the
pledge.


In 1826 he moved with his family into our
Settlement, and undertook the management of the
Cloth-business, which was than being established in
the Brns House, as a branch of the Diacony. In this
situation he evinced showed as much concern for the prosperi
ty of the business and laboured with a great diligence,
as if it had been his own. It may with truth be af
firmed of him that as a steward he was found faith
ful in all things. It was given to him to act in
accordance with the Apostolic injunction, "Be not
slothful in business; fervent in spirit, serving the
Lord." The Lord did not withhold His blessing; but
prospered the work of his hands.
As Regarding his general character it may be
mentioned, that he was a man of retired habits
and rather reserved in his disposition. Hence he
rarely entered into con religious conversation in
reference to his own feelings and hearts experience.
But, while his lips were apparently sealed on these
subjects, his conduct spoke for him, and spoke in a
language, that could not be misunderstood. No obser
ver of his dealings as a tradesman, and of his work
and conversation among his brethren and sisters as
well as among men of the world, could doubt that
he was sincere in his desire and profession to be
not in appearance, but in reality an humble follower of 


Jesus. He was very much averse to anything like
show, or excitement in religion, and used to say, "Let
me have my religious enjoyment in a quiet way."
He was not one of those who, having itching ears, dis
grace their profession by foresaking their own place of
worship, and run to and fro to gratify an idle curiosity.
In the Chapel, and among the people, where the Lord
had first met him, he felt at home. There he found
that spiritual food, which his soul needed, and the
joy, visible in his countenance, proved that his inner
man was strengthened in faith, hope and love. Hence
he took great pleasure in the office of Chapel servant.
Of this he gave a striking proof a short time before
his death. Being indisposed his repeatedly express
ed an earnest will, that he might be sufficiently
recovered by the time when his course of service com
menced. But the Lord had determined otherwise
for ere his week of service arrived he was permit
ted to exchange his attendance in the earthly sanctua
ry for a place in the celestial temple, where those
who "have washed their robes and made them white in
the blood of the Lamb are before the throne of God
and serve Him day and might."
Our late Brother had enjoyed uninterrupted
health till the middle of January 1837, when he was sei
zed with an attack of the prevailing Influenza, which
chiefly affected his head, and produced acute pain in
the ears, accompanied with much difficulty of hearing.


He was, however, still able in some measure to attend
to business, which encouraged the hope, that the complaint
would gradually be subdued. But, whatever might
be the hope of his friends, the few remarks, which oc
casionally dropped from his lips, showed, that he consi
dered it not improbable, that the time of his departure
was at hand. Then, on one occasion when his wife
was speaking with him about a room, that was being
fitted up for their accommodation, he said, "I shall
not live to enjoy it." In this opinion he was fully
confirmed, when on April the 7th he was seized with
great dizziness in the head. During the evening
of that day he had much pleasing conversation with
a friend on various spiritual subjects. Being remin
ded of the love of our gracious Saviour, who had done and
suffered so much for us, he said, "O yes!" and then re
peated the Hymn which, as mentioned before, had con
veyed much comfort to his mind at the time of his first
awakening, "How lost was my condition Till Jesus
made me whole" &c. In the prayer he offered up at
their family devotion that evening, he in a very im
pressive manner supplicated the Lord to give grace to them
all to run with patience their Christian course, and
ever aim at the mark, which is above every mark.
The following day, being Communion Satturday,
he felt better and got up in the morning. Some
extracts from Dodriges ??? and Progress in the
of religion


in the soul, treating of the departures of Christians out
of the world, and likewise some passages of the last
of our Saviour's last discourses we read to him. He enjoyed the rea
ding very much and made several striking remarks on the
happiness of a child of God; and exclaimed in a tone of
evident joy, "The Lord is with me; I have Him now."
Attending to the celebration of the Lord's supper he
added, "I can have Him here as well as you in the
chapel." On Sunday he seemed to be much better
and was very cheerful. The widow of his brother John
calling to see him, he said; "Last Wednesday, when
passing by the Burialground of the Independent
Chapel, on looking where my brother's remains are
interred, I could not help exclaiming aloud, Oh!
John, thou hast a glorious crown on thy head." On
Monday he was much troubled with sickness. Be
tween the fits of vomiting he often ejaculated, "I want
Jesus! the Lord is all-sufficient!" On Sunday he took
no notice of any thing, and in the evening became
very restless. Once he began to repeat the Hymn,
"Saviour visit they plantations" &c but could proceed
no further than the first line. The last sensible
words he uttered were in answer to the question
whether he felt happy, when he replied and could say
that Jesus was his Saviour, when he replied, "I hope
I can; the Lord is all-sufficient." After this his


recollection began to fail and be continued in an
insensible state till about 8 o'cl on Wednesday morning,
when his redeemed spirit entered into the rest, which
remaineth for the people of God.
Sketch of the character and last illness of
Wm Johnson, who departed at Fulneck on
April 8. 1838; Aged 6 years, and 11 months.
Compiled by his Schoolmaster.
The friends of the departed child, while mourning the
loss of one who was greatly endeared to them by his
interesting manner and good conduct and, above all,
by his serious character and deportment, feel a plea
sure in recollecting various little occurrances, which
afford evidence that the heart of this dear child was
impressed with the importance of religion, and that
the Holy Spirit was carrying on a work of grace in
his soul, and preparing him for that inheritance, to
which he has been thus early translated.
Tho' his pilgrimage here was short, it was a
trying one. For the last three years he suffered
greatly from a spinal complaint; From the first attack
in February 1835, when he had not completed his fourth
year, he was for five months confined to his couch, and
partially lost the use of his limbs. During that time


it gave him much pleasure when the history of the
Old Testament was either read or related to him,
especially the histories of Abraham, Joseph, & Moses.
In July of the just mentioned year his health was
partially restored, and his friends indulged the hope of
his complete recovery; but in November the malady re
turned with increased force, and from that time to the
day of his death he continued to suffer in a greater
or less degree. His patience under the severe me
dical treatment, which his complaint rendered
necessary, was truly astonishing; so much so, that
his medical attendants declared they had seldom
seen such patience and firmness even in adults.
Between the several attacks of illness he atten
ded school, where he was remarkable for diligence
and good behaviour. ???? of good natural abili
ties and a great degree of application, his progress
in learning, notwithstanding frequent interruptions,
was considerable more so than that of many much
??? boys. His good conduct appeared to proceed
from principle and not, as in the case with many
children, from fear of punishment. He was much
distressed when any circumstance caused him to
be late at school, and he made a point of being clean
and neat in his person and dress.
From his infancy he regarded the Lord's day
with feelings of reverence and delight. It was to him


the most happy day of the seven; and great was his
grief when prevented from attending the services in the
chapel. When about three old, hearing a man /since
transported/ declare, that he had not been in a place
of worship for eight years, little William exclaimed,
"Not go to chapel? then I am sure God will not love
for God is there." He gave proof also that
he was an attentive hearer, for it was a rare case
when he did not ask for an explanation of some
part of the sermon, which he has not understood.
The departure of his father in the spring of
last year did not make that impression on him
which might have been expected in a child of his charac
ter. He seemed to grieve much more at the removal
S. Br. Kirkland to Leominster, a few months after.
His mother inquiring the reason of this, he replied:
"O mother, father must go, for our Saviour called him,
but Mr. Kirkland might have stayed."
Sometime after the said there was a petition in
the Litany, which he did not remember to have noti
ced previously to his father's death, viz "Defend and
and provide for fatherless children and widows." He
knew all the preceding part of the Litany, but this
petition always affected him so much, that he could
not remember what followed, or as he expressed it,
"his eyes did not yet right till the Sermon began."


Another pleasing feature to his character
was his strict regard to truth in himself and others.
Accustomed to speak the truth himself he never fai
led to reprove those, whom he heard repeat a false
hood. If he heard any of his friends relate a cir
cumstance a second time, he always corrected them
if they did not tell it exactly in the same manner as
before.
In the autumn of last year he was able to attend
school pretty regularly, and with great pleasure loo
ked forward to the examination at Christmas. Those
who were present on that occasion must recollect
the propriety, with which he recited a piece, the
last stanza of which, containing a prayer, now hap
pily granted, is to beautifully affecting us to just
ify its insertion in this sketch of his character.
Art Thou my Father? then at last
When all my day on earth are past,
And down so take me of thy love,
To be thy better child above.
After the holidays he for a short time returned
to school; but to his great grief was soon forced to discontinue
his attendance, as his complaint increased in violence.
No immediate danger, however, was apprehended till
about a month ago, when dropsical symptoms manifested
themselves, and it became apparent that his days on
earth were numbered.


A friend one day read to him the 21st chapter
of Revelations. He felt so much interested in the descrip
tion of the New Jerusalem given in that chapter, that
a few days after he asked his sister to read it again to
him. As she did not immediately recollect what chapter
it was, he repeated its principal contents, which enabled
her to find it. He delighted also is reading the ac
count of our Saviours Miracles, and one day, speaking
of His having turned water into wine, he said, "The
Jews might have known that He was God, or He
could not have done so."
A friend asking him one day whether he still
prayed, as she had not heard him lately, he answered
"Oh, yes. I first say my usual prayers." His friend
inquiring what he prayed for after that, he replied
"You know the Litany well, there is a prayer in
that, it is a very short one, only a few syllables, it is,
Lord have mercy upon us! Is not that a right
prayer?" At another time he told his mother that
he used different prayers, for sometimes as he said
"Lord, open my eyes but I sleep the sleep of death." Being
asked, if he understood the meaning of that text, he
replied; "Yes; sleeping the sleep of death means going
to the bad place, and having my eyes opened means
 going to heaven."
Speaking of Christ dying for sinners, he said


he could not tell how Christ could die for the sins of per
sons who were not born, since this could not have sinned.
His mother having explained it to him he said, "I know
it is so, I know that I am a sinner, and that you are
a sinner, and that Jesus Christ died for me. But I 
cannot understand how it was."
The Hymn, "Jesus, Lover of my soul, let me to thy
bosom fly &c" was a great favorite of his. It led him One
day after reading it he said. "Whoever knows any
thing must know that Jesus loved our souls, or He
would not have died for us." He was also very fond of
the Hymn "When pining sickness wastes the frame &c."
While his mother was reading to to him, only three
days before his departure, he lifted up his arms
and said: "My frame is wasted, Mother." And when
she read the line, "To make thy bed He'll condemn"
she looked up and sweetly smiled." Many were the
conversations, which he had during his last illness with
special kind friends, to which he expressed his desire to
depart and be with Christ.
He was confined to his bed for ten days, and during
that time, as of the former part of his illness, scarce
amusement escaped his lips. Feeling he had not long
to live he gave directions for the dividing of his toys and
other things among his companions.
Early on Sunday morning, April the 8th, he prayed


for every member of the family repeatedly and, with
child like simplicity, said to his mother, "I always pray
for my father. I know he is in heaven, but I cannot
help praying for him. I shall soon be with him."
During the day a great alteration was observable
in him, and it became evident that he would soon be
released from all his sufferings. He spoke very little
and became gradually weaker till shortly before 10
O'cl in the evening when he fell gently asleep in Jesus,
aged 6 years 11 months and 22 days.
He rest now in peace
Behold the Lord's face,
His happily finished thus early his race.


