Yaxham Rectory
Concerning the life & happy departure
of our late dear Sr Johnson
My dear Sr you have probably heard already
that my beloved Mother has departed to her rest
ful it it due to our Brn & Srs of the Moravian
congregation, who pleaded for her so recently
at the throne of Grace in the words of that
most appropriate hymn, "When flesh decays
and begone fails", "Do thou her strength &
portion be," Support her weakness, bear
her ails", "And softly whisper trust in me"
And it is due especially to you, who so
kindly expressed their sympathy, and your
own in your letter of the 1st just, that
you should have direct information of
God's mercy to her, and to us her devoted
children.
And what greater so
lace could we have than the manifest
tokens God has given us, that such
prayers were heard. It is true that
her spirits were much oppressed during
the last months of her life, owing I
doubt, not, in a great degree to the 
nature of her disease which brought
her to the grave: which without ever
causing acute pain, has a grievous


on the spleen; but the light which
was shed upon her at times during her
illness, redounds all the more to the
glory of God. She alludes to both
in a paper which my brother has just
found among her Memoranda.
"The wonderful grace of my God has been
so slowlly manefested to me this day
in my poor helpless forlorn state! dark
and dead as I am in myself, and my
bent frame. Jesus comes as it were
face to face to his poor creature and 
says, "I am thine", "only believe."
Dear William has been with me to
tea, and it has refreshed me; and we
have had sweet interchange of thought
and feeling on Heavenly things. Blessed
be God: Oh keep me from grieving that
blessed spirit by--" there she was
interrupted.
I well remember
the evening to which she alludes;
and how, while we were on our knees
in prayer, she interposed in my general
confession of sin, to pour out her soul in
prayer, in the Confession of sins of temper
and spirit, which she felt were then especially


her burden. Whatever those infirmities
were, those sins over which she groaned,
I need not tell you that they are remem
bered by us, only to call forth our grati
tude to Him who caused her thus to
abhor them: and, "who bore our sins
in his own body on the tree, that we
being dead unto sin, should live unto
righteousness, by whose stripes we are
healed." The Cross of Christ through
life was his glory: If I have indeed
been brought to cast myself at its feet,
it was my Mother's hand that led me
there. Her earliest religious impres
sions date back almost to her childhood
when, as the lately told me, she was
taken out sobbing from the Moravian
Chapel into the garden; her gentle spirit
overcome by that touching Hymn No 998
"Jesus makes my heart rejoice": The last
verse of which, God designed in his in
finite grace to fulfil in her I trust.
"Should not I, for gladness leap"
"Led by Jesus, as his Sheep,
"For when then blest days are over,
"To the arms of my dear Saviour
I shall be conveyed to rest,
Amen, yea my lot is blest."


The earliest records of my memory
recall her to me as a tenderly anxious
and affectionate mother, sparing of praise
faithful for admonition always aiming
at one thing, that her children might
be the Lord's: Sustained in her prayers
by the gracious assurance that is in
Ish 44.3. "For I will pour water on
him that is thirsty, and floods &c
I will pour may spirit upon thy seed
and may blessing upon thy offspring &c."
And as a daily means there to, assem
bling us in her room every morning
at 8 Oclock to read and to explain to us
God's word, making us learn large
portions of it by heart, and enforcing
with all a parents' authority our strict
obedience to its Precepts. The thirty
years of her widowhood, seem to have been
years of severe discipline, which brought
her nearer still to her Saviour.
The first page which I cast my eye on,
in a diary this moment opened, expresses
touchingly the blessed effects of God's teachings
dealings with her. It was written at
Cromer in 1858. "Oh Lord, Thou hast been
very near and dear to my Soul, here in my


little Cottage. Oh how near; as near as
the very air I breathe; and I seem to draw
converse with thee, as with a beloved
tender sympathizing friend. Preserve me
Oh Lord from want of deep ???; wretched
vile and false as I am in myself. Oh let
me look at thee my God, and make
me holy, as Thou art holy. My dear
children and grandchildren bring me
very near to my Lord and Saviour in
prayer and praise. Oh let me not
deceive myself. "Search me O god and
know may heart &c Do shew me the way
in which I should go, for I lift up my
soul unto thee. Amen. Thy will, not
mine, be done." The trials of widow
hood were increased for the consequent
loss of her parochial interests; which
were the growth of twenty five years,
during which her labours in the parish
were unwearied, in visiting the sick
and instructing the ignorant with
singular force in the blessed truths
of the Gospel. This was a work for
which the distinctness of her doctrinal
views, her clear voice, and her earnest
impressive manner, made her ministrations


eminently effective, and which God
permitted her to renew in the old 
scene of her labours at Yaxham, at
the advanced age of 74, and continue
till within three months of her death.
When at length the was checked
in he work, and the signs of decay
were manifest, she said to me, "Is
it not wonderful that I, who am na
turally so nervous, should be able to
look forward to death, without fear."
If the thought of her dissolution
even oppressed her, I believe she was
instantly relieved by the assurance
that Christ would be with her, a
fact the more to be noticed, because
in regard to the little trials of the day
it might truly be said that "the
grasshopper was a burden." "But
precious in the sight of the Lord
is the death of his saints."
The death came on very gradually.
On Saturday night, it was evidently
near at hand. The children had
offered up with her the beautiful
prayers for the visitation of the sick",


from the prayer book - including the
commentating prayers. In the evening
I was watching by her, when she said,
"Good night dear William, I want to go to
sleep." After a while sleep came,
I listened to her breathing for an hour
as she lay perfectly undisturbed.
It grew fainter. it ceased. we
watched for some minutes expecting
that there would come a last breath,
but no, her spirit had fled: She
was already sleeping in Jesus.
"The Lord has dealt very graciously
with her", said the nurse. We all
knelt down and praised him for it.
So her eternal Sabbath began ere
the early dawn of our earthly one
It was in sweet accordance with
the last text which I read to her
from her Moravion text book (dearly
cherished as thousands had been, to this
her last). "I have caused thee to rest
from all thine enemies", and, "Jesus
loved us, and washed us from our sins
in his own blood" It was on Sabbath
Feb. 21 in 1864 when she entered into the rest that


remaineth for the people of God," after
a pilgrimmage of 75 years. I may add
that the last hymn I read to her the
day before she died, and which she would
have me read twice, was that on the
surrender of the heart to Jesus no 342
"Unto the Lamb of God" &c.
With cordial thanks for your
sympathy and prayers and for those
of our Brn and Srs in christ who
have been always endeared to me
from Childhood, Believe me dear Sir
Yours most truly
Wm Cowper Johnson


