Life of our late Br William Jones
who departed at London Septr 3d
1792
He was born at Dublin July 20th 1736.
When he was about 10 (8 or 9) Years old, being
sent out upon an errand, he happened to
pass by the meeting house in Skinner's
Alley at a time when Br Cennick (in 1766) /was 
preaching there on his first visit in Ireland. Seeing the people crowding
in, he enquired, what was the matter, &
was told, that the false prophet was
preaching, which excited his curiosity to
hear him. When he came home, his father
asked him, why he had staid out so long?
He answered, that he had been hearing the
false prophet. And how did You like him,
replied his father? Answer: to me he ap
peared like an Angel. This induced his
father, to go with him the followg morning,
to hear Br Cennick, and he immediately re
ceived such an impression, that from that
time he followed the Brethren, and when
a Congn was settled at Dublin, he was one
of the first, that composed it & continued


a respectable member of the same to his end.
Our late Brother being likewise awakened
thro' the preaching of Br Cennick, was taken
into the Society. But afterwards thinking,
his father was too strict with him in keeping
him as much as possible, from company,
he left his father's house and was bound
Apprentice to a Speermaker. There he lived
in a place noted for the practice of all man
ner of wickedness and profligacy, so that
our late Br used to say, he could not ad
mire and praise sufficiently the faithful
ness of our Savior in preserving him from
utter rein and saving him as a brand
plucked from the burning.
Having served his time, he went to Eng
land, in order to try his fortune, and got
on board of a man of war. The English
being then engaged in a war with the
French, he had not been long on board, be
fore an engagement happened, in which
however he received no hurt, & soon after
he was fortunate enough, to get his discharge,
On his return to Ireland, the vessel he was in,
was


tions in his life, which are here omitted for
brevity's sake.- Some time after a rein
forcement going out to Bellisle, which
had been taken from the French, he was
ordered on board the fleet, which was ready
to sail. But the wind proving contrary
for several days, he was countermanded
to Bristol, to raise more recruits for the
regiment; which being done, he marched
with a detachment to Yarmouth for em
barkation. But at that very juncture
a peace took place & thus he remained
in England. Having got his discharge,
he at settled at Norwich, and there in
dulged as much as ever his inclination
for drinking and dancing. Being invited
to a wedding, he spent the whole night
in this sinful diversion, and went to bed
in the morning; but behold, when he
wanted to get up again, he found himself
totally blind. Under this awful dispensa
tion he was brought to reflect upon his de
plorable condition and the dreadful con
sequences of his sinful course, & having


after 3 weeks recovered the sight use of one eye,
he was determined, to break off his pemi
cious connexions and went to London,
where he was visited by the Brethren and
especially by our late Br Gambold, till
he recovered his health. After some relapses
into his former ways, he came to a fixed
determination, to join the Brethren and
frequented their preachings diligently.
One day as our late Br Abraham Taylor
was preaching on the words: I am poor
and ready; yet the Lord thinketh upon
me. Is. 40. 17 the word spoken came
home to his heart with the demonstration
of the Spirit and of power. He was deep
ly convinced of his wretched state, and
yet under all the sense of his guilt he
could believe, that the Lord was thinking
upon him. He sought the Lord as a re
penting Sinner and returning prodi-
gal, and obtained the forgiveness of his
Sins. Soon after he was readmitted to
the Brethren's Society & Septr. 20th 1767
he and his wife were received into the


Congn and the year following admitted to
the Lord's Supper. Both he and his wife be
ing called upon, to serve the Congn, were ap
pointed Hall. Servants and have continued
to this office ever since with much faith
fullness and assiduity.
His course among us was not without
changes and vicissitudes, as he himself
acknowledged with contrition of heart.
But he never failed, to take refuge to him,
who had wrought so many & such striking
deliverances in his behalf; nor did he ever
lose again his attachment to the Brethren's
Congn Our missions among the Heathen
were a particular object of his attention
and when he was chosen a member of
the Society for the Furtherance of the Gospel,
he esteemed it a favor and priviledge, to
take a more effectual share in this im
portant work.
For several years past our late Brother
enjoyed but a poor state of health & neither
he nor others thought, his broken consti
tution would have held out so long-


At the beginning of this year his health
began to decline very rapidly, wch made
it necessary for him, to go now and then
a little out of town for the benefit of his
health and he generally returned to his
business with some appearance of new
strength. But one day, as he was going
out upon business, he was taken in the
street with such a violent vomiting of
blood, that his speedy dissolution was
expected. However he recovered from this
and several other fits of the same kind,
to the astonishment of every body, till
his nature was so exhausted, that it
could bear up no longer under such re
peated attacks and fell into a gradual
decay. Under all these circumstances he
showed great patience and resignation,
yea frequently expressed his gratitude,
that he felt so little bodily pain-
At the same time a great & blessed
work was carried on in his soul by the
holy Ghost. Several things new appeared
unto him in a different light from


near nearly wrecked and he had a very nar-
row escape with his life. Being come home,
he was reconciled to his parents and in 1755
married to his present wife, after which
he carried on his business for about 6 Years.
But being of a roving disposition he went
again to England and arrived in London
on 1761, whither his wife followed him soon
after. Before he was rightly settled, he
changed his mind again and enlisted in
the army, Showing himself clever in his
profession he was soon made a Corporal
and sent out with a recruiting party to
Bristol. Here it happened, that as he
was one day standing at a corner of the
street, making his speech to the people
for enlisting, turning about he suddenly
spied Br Neuberg standing in a shop,
who had been his Laborer at Dublin.
He was so struck, that he dropt his
sword and said to the Drummer: let us
go home, there is nothing to be done for us
here. He was so ill, that he was obliged,
to take to his bed, as soon as he came home.


 His Officer, who had much regard for him,
charged the Doctor, not to spare any pains
for his recovery; but the latter declared,
there was something in his illness, which
he could not account for; he judged, that
it originated in his mind. As soon as he
had recovered a little, he went to Br Neu
berg, confessed to him his backslidings
and fell about his neck weeping; but told
him at the same time, that for the present
it was impossible for him, to break off his
engagements-- While he was at Bristol,
he experienced a very remarkable preser-
vation of his life. Being in pursuit of a
deserter, he with some of his men followed
him into a glass house, where he had taken
refuge. The workmen taking part with
the deserter, pelted his pursuers with
bits of broken glass and even with the
melting Substance out of the furnace. He
saved himself by falling flat on the ground,
and when the workmen had left the place
in pursuit of the party, he escaped out of it,
He had several other remarkable preservations


what they did formerly and various de
viations occurred to his mind, which he
confessed with conviction, & was anxious
to have them forgiven. He complained
much about dryness of heart and once
earnestly desired, that a prayer might
be made in his behalf at by his bedside;
which being readily complied with, he
joined in it with such fervency of spi
rit, and with such hunger & thirst after
consolation, that all present were deeply
affected thereby. From thence he lived
from day to day upon that spiritual
comfort and nourishment, that was
administer'd unto him born the fullness
of Jesus, and which alone supported
him under his last trials & afflictions,
consisting chiefly in this, that some
times a cloud of citation darkness would over-
spread his Soul and hide from him
the benign countenance of his Redeemer
and Savior. In his last days light &
peace filled his heart, and he frequently


called out with a longing desire: come
Lord Jesus, come! When he was blessed
for his departure, he declared once MORE
I am confident, that our Savior will
receive me in mercy. He departed Sept
3d in the evening, aged 56 Years and
2 months. At his funeral the about
mentioned text: I am poor and need
yet the Lord thinketh upon me, which
had proved the occasion of his conver-
sion, was the Subject of the discourse
as our late Brother had requested-


