The life of the Sle Sisr Ann Kellet who departed
to our Savr in the Choirhouse at Fulneck Jany 5th
1788. She has left the following account of herself.
I was born at Whibsey in the Parish of Bradford
Yorkshire, March 21st 1745, as soon as I was able
my Parents sent me to School which was then kept
by the Sisrs at Scoles and Horton, and I had a great
pleasure in it, but the first real feeling I remember
to have had, was when Br. Gross had the care of the
Children, when he came his round, he kept us a
meeting, and told us that on such a day in the next
week at Lambs-Hill there woud be a Congn. day 
for Childn., which he had wish'd for many Years.
telling us how he wish'd us to spend our time till
then, asuring us that our Saviour would bless us
in a particular manner, I longed for the time to come
as I expected something particular and was not
dissappointed, it was the first time I had been at
such a meeting, we Country Childn. were in the Gal
lerry, the discourse was kept by Br. Tranecker, 
during which I remember my heart was quite
overcome with the feeling, I pray'd our Savr. to 
bless me, tho' I did not think myself to worthy as
those who were below, but He was very near me.
I long'd afterwards for these Congn. days to come.
When I was reciev'd amongst the Great Girls


my whole wish was to prosper for our Saviour and I 
felt a desire to go and live with the Sisrs. which lasted
till a Cousin I had who went to live with the Brn.
soon left them again, and as I know he went with a 
full intention to stay with them, it put such a damp 
upon me, that I gave it up, thinking that I might per
haps do as he had done. My Parents spoke to me in a 
very close manner, and told me never to think of going
if I thought of acting in the same way, but instead of
this proving a blessing, it harden'd my heart, and I did
my best to stifle all convictions, I went on this wicked
way for near a Year, till I cou'd hold it out no longer, I 
then made a full resolution to leave all, let the consequence
be as they wou'd.  My Parents were exceedingly pleas
with this, and did to the utmost of their power to get
my things in readiness against my removal, which 
took place Octr 23d 1761, when I mov'd into the Choir
House at Fulneck, my Mother accompanied me, but on
seeing her so concern'd for fear of my not praying, affect
me very much, but I soon got to be at home amongst the 
Srs. tho' one thing always put a damp upon me, which
was that I was not sure of my Salvation. Jany 1st, 1762
I was receiv'd into the Congn. quite unexpectedly, but
instead of this being a pleasure, it was a pain to me, as I 
secretly wish'd it not to take place till I knew for certain
that my sins were forgiven, now I had no more rest, think
I wou'd neither eat nor sleep, till I had attain'd it, as at


time I thought it was all fancy, I went on in this way
for a whole Year unti Decr 19th, when Br. LaTrobe
preach'd a sermon, and took his text out of the Song
of Solomon, where our Savr. is describ'd as a Roe or a
Young Hart, he first treated of the swiftness of them
and likened them to the haste which our Saviour makes
to any poor Soul in distress, whilst he was speaking I 
felt so overcome that it is impossible to express what I 
felt in those moments, when I came a little to myself, 
having my Hymn book on my lap, it came into my
mind to open a verse for myself, which was Jesus my
Bridegroom my soul is - To thee already joined &c. what 
I felt at the reading of this is impossible to describe, it 
was as if our Saviour spoke every word of it Himself
and I had never heard the verse before, I was so happy, 
and felt that such a change had taken place, that I cou'd
hardly believe what had happen'd to me, being once in
my Class, my Labouress (who I believe had a mind to 
try my faith) said she had a question to ask me, adding
Our Saviour will know if it is so, and the Sisrs shall be
witnesses, the question was, whether I had felt our
Savrs. forgiveness? I told her I knew I had as clearly as
I knew when the sun shone, but I know I must have
it daily renew'd, she answer'd me with those words, that
For without fresh supplies - the former droops and dies
Continually we've need. By faith on Him to feel. This
made me reason a little, why she should ask me first a
question but my faith failed not. In the year 1760 I had


the grace and favour of being receiv'd into the Sle. Sisrs.
Choir, which has prov'd a real blessing to me, the reception
meeting in particular, Br LaTrobe sung that verse, Where
agonizing Blood - The reeking earth did cover - There
each unlamblike though - Shall be interr'd forever.
after these words he kneel'd down, and pray'd very affect
ingly that every thing displeasing to our Savr. might be
remov'd before we enter'd into a new Choir, when he rose
up from prayer he sung, Henceforth they'll move no where
This made such an impression upon me, that I wish'd with
my whole heart that this might be my case. At this
time a new school began to take place in my heart, and
those things which before seem'd not of much consequence
to me, now appear'd as great Sins, I thought at this time
that if I disclos'd my mind to anyone, I shou'd not have
the favour to stay any longer in the House, and pray'd
our Savr. earnestly to help me without opening my mind,
a Sisr. in the Room, seeing the distress I was in, spoke
to me in a tender manner, and gave me to understand
that She had expereinc'd the same, and advis'd me to speak
my mind to my Labouress, but being of a very close turn, 
I still cou'd not do it, one day when I cou'd hear it no
longer, I went alone, and there pray'd our Savr. to help me
I open'd that verse, Can any ill distress my heart - Since
God with his own Son did part - Whate'er I want can't be
deny'd - Because for me the Saviour dy'd. Then I saw
clearly that no ill need distrress me, for by my Saviours
Birth and Sufferings He had purchas'd all things for


me, and wou'd not deny me any thing, now I cou'd speak
openheartedly to my Labouress about every thing. Augt
13th the same Year I was made became a Candidate for the 
Holy Comunion during the Sacrament, the pouring out 
of the Wine and singing that verse How in this Hall
with haste - That thy Church met it render &c. I 
felt in my heart as if it really was so; afterwards
I waited with ardent longing for the time to come when
I shou'd enjoy it, which favour was granted me the 
4th of May following, but I did not feel so well as I 
cou'd have wish'd being very timerous, and wanting
to enjoy something so very extraordinary, not expect
ing that at such a time one bad thought shou'd arise after
another; but I found by experience that they were some
times more ripe then, than at any other time, and I
felt so many things stirring from time to time; but our
Savr. gave me to feel that there was no occasion for me
to be a shame to sin of any kind, as in Him there was
full santification. In the Year 1767 it pleas'd our
Savr. to take my dear Parents home to himself, also my 
Br. and Sr. in a few weeks who left 3 Childn Orphans
we were in the greatest distress how they shou'd be 
cared for, but our Savr. according to his promise has
cared for them all, but taking the youngest to himself
and the other two are now in Gomersal Oeconomy.
In the Year 1768 when the Unitys Elders Conference
was here, I serv'd in the kitchen during their stay


and after they were gone, I was desir'd Serve in the 
Childrns work which at first for several reasons was
not agreable to me, but it prov'd a School for my heart
and made me keep close to our Savr so that I can truly 
say 5  Years I liv'd there form'd a real blessing for
my heart, especially the Childrns Congn days, which remind
my Childrens Years to me. After that I return'd into
the Choir house, where I was employed in the Wash for
12 Years. As for those latter Years, I am at a loss
what to say, and cannot express what our Savr has been
to me, but so far I am joy. He has taught me to know
what his in human nature, and other human weak
nesses are, together with what He can be to a poor distress
ed Soul, for I often thought I was like God, and had to
weep the bitterest tears, on account of my thinking too
much of certain circumstances that occurred to me, that
He never faild to comfort me in a most striking manner
by passages of Scripture just so. Are not true Sinners
Sold for a farthing, and not one of them shall fall to the
ground without my heavenly Fathers knowledge, fear
ye not therefore, for the very Hairs of your Head are
all remeber'd. Amidst all reasonings I cou'd also believe
what that verse expresses, How well O Lord art thou thy 
People leading - Tho' oft thy ways seem wonderfull and
Strange. There can be nothing wrong in thy proceeding
Because thy faithfulness can never change - Thy ways
are often crooked and yet Straight - In which thy


Children are ordain'd to walk-- Tho' all to ruin
seems to go and waste - As his to ?? ??? thou art
wise and great. And now I hope our Savr will grant
me patience to wait his time, untill He shall please to
call me home to Himself, then I shall be able to praise
him better for all that He has done for me.
So for our late Sisrs on account.
What she writes concerning those last Years is in
reference to her receving a Call in the year 1784 to
serve our Saviour in Barbados, which she ????
accepted but no for account of circumstances) it was
afterwards found good to postpone the matter for
sometime, it prov'd a great trial to her, and she took
it much to heart, which so far impair'd her health
that (tho' it was still kept in view for her) it now
no less oblig'd to be entirely drop't But as she
herself how briefly noted how she felt in those circum
stances, will only further mention that in her last
sickness, which from what time now gradually, ???
ing, and at last terminated in a Consumption, our
Savr was particularly gracious to her, and enabled
her to resign everything chearfully into his faith
full hands, whenever she spoke of her own hearts
feeling it was always in the most gratefull tone, that 
She loved her help'd thro' so well, for said she, when I 
look my whole course ever, I see abundance of greatness 


and mercy which our Savr. has always shown towards
me his poor one, for which I shall remain a debtor
to all eternity. the Joy she felt at of the prospect of
soon seeing him on whom she had believ'd while here,
was visible evident in every conversation with her, and her
confidece in our Savr. remain'd unshaken.
January 5th, early in the morning, it was evident
that her time here wou'd not be long, upon which
the last blessing of the Congn. and her Choir was im
parted to her, during which she was quite sensible 
and herself had signify'd that a Liturgy shoud be kept
by her, which was attended with an awefull feeling
of the near presense of our Savr. and of what came to
pass in those moments, for, during the same, she fell
happily asleep in Him, having spent here below
43 Years, 11 weeks wanting.


