Our late dear Sister Elizabeth Kenzie
was born in London in April 1800. And
in her 18th yr while engaged in keeping
the House & caring for the Children of her-
Brother in law, in one of the Scilly Isles- She
met with the account of the "Dairyman's
daughter by the late Leigh Richmond by
which means the Holy Spirit wrought upon
her mind a deep conviction of Sin- and full
of the enquiry what must I do to be saved"!
She returned to London to seek an awakened
ministry-
Having obtained peace & joy in
believing she determined wholly to follow
the Lord-- and sacrificed worldly advan-
tages, to obtain the higher privilege of being
permitted weekly to worship in the house
of our God which she made part of her agree-
ment in taking any situation- sickness in the
family being excepted--
For- upwards of the last twenty
Years of her life, she felt herself called to belong
to the Brns Church by a perusal of their-writing
cheifly the Periodicals accounts which she obtaind


this the medium of friends coming to visit
her relations in London, she usually attended
the Brns Chapel about once in two years; and
the first time of her attendance heard Br Jas:
Latrobe preach, which greatly increased her
desire to join the Congn Circumstances how-
ever kept her at a distance, and being House
keeper in the family of a Clergyman of
the Establishment who boarded a number-
of young gentlemen it was not until his de-
cease when his Widow no longer required her
services that she found herself at liberty
to accomplish her long cherish'd wish-
coming at the Christmas season in
1849. to Fetter lane, to treat herself as she
express'd herself it with a Moravian. Sermon
she ask'd permission to attend the lovefeast &
concluding meetings on New Year's Eve- of
which she had heard, and soon made appli-
cation to join the London Congregation. Being
determined if possible to gain admission she 
wailed perseveringly till her request was granted
and became a received Communicant with us
in the Autumn of 1850. Testimonials of her


character of the most satisfactory nature
having been obtained she was almost imme-
diately enjoyed in the service of the Ladie's
school at Fulneck in Yorkshire but feeling
the duties beyond her strength requested
her dismission and returned at the close
of 1852. to her friends here in very ill health
The complaint which required surgical & advice
gained ground rapidly and for the last Six-
weeks, she retired to the Hospital at Charring X.
It is much to be regretted that she was an
inmate here for several weeks before we
knew of it- but When visited she was found
with a smile on her countenance in perfect
serenity of mind and with a perfect composure of
manner rarely witnessed, casting all her care
of body and Soul, on the Lord who cared for her
and not even making an enquiry of the Doctor
as to the probable issue of the disease- "It is all well:
she said, "for life or death I have his anxiety about
my case" That soothing text of scripture hung
in her view. "It is the Lord" let him do what seem-
-eth him good: and she fully appropriated its blessed
import to herself-- leaning with unshaken
Confidence on the arm of her beloved.
Tho' her affectionate relatives and friends


supplied her with every comfort in addition to the
Hospital diet her strength daily declined; and
on Thursday the 5 th just when the Writer
last saw her- it was evident she was hastening
to her everlasting home- her mind remain-
ing in perfect peace. She had suffered
severe pain for many weeks, but it was then
much abated till Saturday night When it be-
came so violent that she was much troubled
at disturbing the repose of the other patients
by being unable to Suppress her groans. under the
distressing Paroxysms.-
On Sundays She
continued increasingly ill-- but on Monday
as the closing scene drew near the pain Subsided.
Between twelve and one oclock she asked
for her usual dinner of animal food with
porter and took a small quantity of both-
seeing her relatives weeping she begg'd them
not to greive assuring them that all was well with
her in body and Soul, and that She was going to
a far better Country (habitation)- about one o"clock
When her Brother and the Husband of her neice
left her; in a faint voice, for her strength
seem'd nearly gone, she gave them the ad-
-dress of the Writer and sent her parting love-
but in an hour afterwards a few minutes before


a few minutes before she gently breathed away
being supported by her Sisterinlaw. She exclaimed
with a loud voice. "I am happy, happy, happy!"
which were the last words she uttered.- She
was 53 yrs of age.-
Not knowing of our burial ground till too
late to avail themselves of the privilege, the
relatives. remains of our late Sr Kenzie have arranged
for her interment on Sunday 15 th Inst at the
Brompton Cemetry- or it would have been
pleasing for her remains to have rested
with those of the people of her decided choice
among whom She has walked so unblamebly.
The memory of the just is blessed
departed May 9th


