Some account of the late married Br
John Mason.
Our late dear Br John Mason was born at Evesham
in Worcestershire May 25 1712, and baptized
June the 4th following in All Saints Church.
His father was a man of good moral character,
a Dissenter, with whom he went to ^the dissenting
Meeting-house and led a sober life; he served his
apprenticeship with his Father who was a Baker.
Having served out his time, he entered into an
engagement with a young woman, unknown
to his father and went to Worcester to marry her,
but his father hearing of it and being persuaded
it would be productive of unhappiness to his Son
he sent him a letter by a man and horse, which
arrived on the very morning of the day, when
he should have been married. This tender and
moving letter of his father had such an effect
upon his mind, that he went to the young wo=
man, told her the doubts of his mind & broke
off the marriage in a proper manner. He
found reason afterwards to be thankful that
his aim had been frustrated. This engagement
being broken off he came to London, and got


a place as Journeyman to the same business, and
acted in that capacity with great faithfulness.
In about 2 or 3 years he married the niece of his
Mistress, and became Master of the business in
Angel Street. Being concerned about his salvation,
to became very religious in his onward Walk,
and joined a religious Society. One evening he
was invited to spend an hour with a Neighbour,
where Mr John Grace happening to come in,
whom he looked upon from his former knowledge,
as a very profligate man, he thought, he & his
friend would have little comfort together, but
to his great surprise. Mr Grace began to speak
of the fall of Man by Adam, & the depravity of
man, and the Redemption by Jesus Christ, and
the necessity of a living faith. He spoke with
such an emotion of heart, that our late Brother
began to ask himself, where ^he had been all his
lifetime, and what he had been about? having
been hitherto totally ignorant of these divine
Truths. He was so struck with what he heard
that he staid thus in conversation till near 12 at
night, and his Wife was in great anxiety, as
he was not used to stay out late. The impress-
=ion made on his mind by this Conversation


caused him to have but very little sleep the whole
night. The Sunday following he went to hear Mr
Whitfield for the first time, and was more and
more confirmed in what he had heard from
Mr Grace. He joined Mr. Whitfield's Society
and remained in it until the disputes arose
concerning sundry points of doctrine, which he
found to be no food for his heart. He by means
of Br John Cennick then came to hear the Brn
Here he found the food his heart wanted, & his
call to the Brn's Congn was soon clear to him,
The Brn perceived that his heart was attached
to our Saviour, and according to his earnest
 request he was received into the Congn July
20. 1747, and admitted to the holy Communion
Aug.st 2. 1748. He continued stedfast in his heart,
loved and was beloved, and his walk was pleasing
to all around him. He also became useful, serv
=ing the cause of our Lord to the best of his abili
ty. In the year 52 and 53, which were years
of great distress and trial, I when the gracious
Hand of the Lord was upon the Unity, chasten
=ing whom He loved, the outward distress
and inward trials were felt particularly,
in London, and many who gloried in their
  connexion


connexion with the Congn in the days of
seeming prosperity, now in the time of tri=
al, turned back and walked back no more
with us, our late dear Brother remained
faithful to his call and tho' deeply engaged
in the outward affairs which threatened
the dissolution of the Congn and distress
to him, he remained stedfast; his confidence
in our Lord as the Head and Elder of the
Congn was his comfort even in sleepless
nights, and his faith & hope were not put
to shame. He has often said it was a season
of great blessing, tho' of great concern to
him. He saw the difficulties surmounted,
and many wonders of the Lord in the
support of his people. Our Saviour blessed
and prospered his business, so that he saw
that God blessed him in the house and in
the field, as well as in his Soul.
In Feb. 1756 he became a Widower. He was great=
ly distressed about his late Wifes salvation, as she
had not attained that knowledge of our Saviour
which could make her joyful at her end; but our
Lord comforted him with a vision of the night,
when he thought that she appeared before him


in white, which afforded him particular satis=
fation. He entered again into the married
state on June 5 1757 with the single Sister Pris=
cilla Cooke who bore Twins in March 1758. They
lived but a short time, yet very happily together
for on April the 6th the same year she departed
happily to our Saviour. The two children also
followed her in the year 1759. His situation in
life requiring a help a helpmate, he entered a=
gain into the married state with the Widow Sr
Mary Thomas, at Bristol on Oct. 31.st 1760.
They lived happily together in the nearness
of our Lord' till his decease. He continued
still in business for some time, but as his health
was hurt by it and our Lord having granted
them a competency for their support, they re-
 =solved to give up business, and to live retired.
He put his Br Dixon into his business, and enjoy'd
rest with thankfulness. Tho' freed from the cares
of this life, yet he was not idle, but served
the Congregation and individuals as far as lay
in his power to his happy departure.
He was a useful Member of the Committee of
this Congregation-A guardian of the English


children's Oeconomies- a member of the Soci-
ety for the Furtherance of the Gospel, and
one of the Committee. Treasurer of the bro=
therly association for the benefit of Wi=
dows; and had an active share in the Ship
sailing to and from Labrador; in all which
offices he was active and faithful.
His love of his happy Sabbath never
made him unwilling to serve, but his Weak=
ness of body, and the effect this had upon
his mind, made him less able to encounter
difficulties than in his more healthy days.
He often spoke of the wonders of mercy he
had received experienced from the hands
of our Saviour, and which he had been a
witness of in our Lord's leading of his peo
=ple.- His heart was always tender towards
his dear crucified Lord; and when he spoke
of his own poverty and defects, his eyes o=
verflowed. In the latter part of his days,
he often lamented with tears that he was
not thankful enough, and said that this
was one of his greatest crimes. As his
body grew more feeble, and his me=


mory and the powers of his mind grew
weaker, it was evident that our Lord pre=
pared him for his Consummation; and
he often felt how much he was in debt to
his bountiful Saviour; but he felt also the
comforts of Grace.
He related, that one might, being in his
bed, he felt great darkness of Soul, and
was deeply distressed, but turning to his
gracious Saviour, a most blessed light
broke in upon his heart, Darkness was dis=
pelled and he was restored to joy and
happiness. Indeed his walk with our Sa-
=viour was often visible in his Countenance
He found much delight in attending the
Meetings, and was attentive to the Apostle's
advice, by not neglecting the Assembly of
our Lord's people. This was the case when
in the hurry of business, and when he had
leisure granted to him, by the providence
of our Lord. Weakness & almost blindness
in the night, did not prevent his attending
even in Winter and in bad weather, the
Meetings. In this he was an edifying


example; and he went out of the Chapel to his
last Bed of sickness. For on Sunday Feb. 6
he went as usual to the intercessor's meeting
and afterwards to the Preaching, during
which he was taken ill and went home,
where he took to his Bed.
His disorder was heavy, but his heart was
clear, and those that visited him felt the
Peace of God about his Bed. At times he
was absent in his Mind, but always return
=ed to himself when any one spoke to him.
It was soon visible that this sickness would
be a means of his going to our Lord.
The last afternoon, his whole Conversation
was about his going home (his mind run-
=ning on Angel Street) his wife mention=
ing to him that his home was the New
Jerusalem, and that the Angels waited to
convey him thither, his answer was, That
is not for you to know, and what if it is,
you have nothing to do but to lean upon
him. Him who has your Soul with Blood
redeemed." 
He sung with an audible voice and clear


countenance, Heal me O my Soul's Physici=
an, the first four lines.  And O to me
how sweet it is- to, Where Thou dyds't
my soul to marry.
And then of his own accord- Ye bleeding
gaping wounds, to me, how sweet ye are &
and, for ever then remain ingrav'd deep
in my heart's recess  &c.
It being said to him, Your pulse beats very
quick; but no matter if it beats to our Savi
=our. His answer was, "That it does.


