I McMillan, excuted at Ayr May [Friday] 25. 1810.
He was tried & condemned Apr. 17 & 18 for having
administered poison to a young woman, 
which occasioned not only the death of her
child, but her own death. He was a native
of Scotland
[Friday] 20 Mar. I called upon him the first time.
He expressed his pleasure at seeing me (Mr
Paul having the night before told him who
I was). He told me be had been in Gracehill
in the way of trade. But otherwise he did
not say much.
He was unwell, thro’ the agitation of his mind. His distress was
augmented, as he had been quite confident he would be acquitted,
even to the very last. He thought his fate very hard, tho’ he
??? he had received justice at the trial. He felt much
23 & 25 / Visited him again. He was greatly dis
tresed at that part of the sentence, by which
his body was to be given to the Surgeon.
Endeavoured to pacify him, and lead his atten
tion to concerns of his soul. His mind greatly
relieved by Gaolor mentioning, he understood
fr. the Provost, his body would scarcely be
asked for by Surgeons at Edinburgh.
At these visits he appeared rather selfrigh
teous, priding himself upon his supposed
moral conduct in every other respect, ex
cepting the crime for which he was con
demned.
28. / He was greatly alarmed with the future
judgment. He said, he saw sin now to be
a very great evil. He seemed distressed


that he did not feel sufficient fluency &
eloquence in praying. I endeavoured to
put him to rights on that head. Henry
Cowen had just been with him, and I ra
ther suspect, that he & I  J. Gac perplex
his mind with subjects of that kind.
May. 1 / Saw him again, He seems to in
crease in selfknowledge, and in desire to
after our Savior. The Meth. Minister
came in. I thought his manner of speak
ing, to the Prisoner very suitable. He ur
ged him to use the utmost simplicity
in ???? applying to our Savior, and 
to come to him just in he was, without
thinking to make himself better.
[Thursday].3. / Was nearly an hour with him. He
said he had no goodness or merit at all
to plead bef. God. He had comitted innu
merable sins, for which God might justly
condemn him, independent of the crime
for which he suffered. He was able to
give up his mother & relatives to God,
and not distress himself any more on
their account. He did not intend to
leave anything behind him in writing
as he thought it was not becoming a
criminal to speak with too much as
surance of himself, and it might tend
to make others presume on the mercy
of God, and harden them in sin.
[Thursday].10./ Prisoner feels more composed this
he is sensible Religion has made a change
upon him - afraid to be too confident


temptation, till I fell in with this woman
I was too weak to resist God knows what
distress I have felt since and still feel, but
I believe be hath pardoned me."
"I die in peace with all mankind
I have nothing against Prsecutor, Jury
or Judge."
"I shall always have reason to pray for par
don to the very last moment for there is
no perfection in this world."
"It is finished!" How delightful. It is
the most precious sentence in the Bible
to a Sinner who can do nothing himself,
and has given to believe in it."
"When I have escaped, I shall remember
in heaven, My Crimes; it will add to my
Joy. ??? say: He loved & washed his
sin. they have no? recollection of sin. 
"What a mercy I was so well attended,
the Lord will reward you." I said: We
are by nature sinners like you "No.
He said, "how unmindful are we of the
slippery path It is very slippery"
"How many happy hours do I now spend in
intercourse with my Savior"
"The heart is deceitful, especially mine
I greatly fear it."
"I have attempted to do good works, but they have
been only an Insult to God, they were done to buy
God's favor but now I wld wish to do it out
of love to my Savior."
[Friday]. 18/ Was in Prison first- 2 1/2 getting  Mr Paul
to let me in at the end J.  Genocty  came


"I have just read Rom VII. I think it very
applicable to my case, especially: "O wret
ched man that I am."
I read a passage of Taylor to him. He
seemed much struck with it. He thought
much of the hymn; Come ye Sinners
poor & wretched &c. which I repeated.
 "My time passes very quickly in me
 ditation & prayer.
"I wish my relations, fellow prisoners
& all mankind wld. take warning by
me -- I earnestly pray for them."
"What a blessed thing it is that we have
the gospel.
"I wish I may be supported at the last."
"When McLean came to me the day of Con
demnation, his observation had no im
pression upon me."
He was 2 days in Carlisle Jail came to
Wigton beginning of December."
His relatives much built in their worldly
concerns by his removal.
"I was never a hardened Sinner, but I at
tempted religion in my own strength."
"I knew much more of Bible before
but my memory fails."
"I heard the Sentence with gt confusion
it did not seize till I came into the
passage."
"I think I leave a good hope but I am jealous
lest my heart shld. be deceived by Satan."


[Saturday]. 19. / Mr Lawson came in. Prisoner got a
letter, Barber came. He had dreamed much
of me, thinking I was not well and he led me
down the street. He said nothing new.
He wishes he could make a firm cove
nant with the Lord.
[Monday] 21./ Went to the Prison at 2. "tonight I felt
greatly distressed with a sense of my sins, they
stood all before me, But I was relieved by a
most uncommon feeling of happiness, I felt my
heart glow, full of joy, sense of pardoning love
I cannot express it. Surely I am not decei
ving myself. I am a great, very great sinner
but I think God's mercy is greater. I love to
trace the sufferings of X [Christ]. there I see Divine
love." Letter he got on [Saturday] was fr. his Mini
ster, who gave evangelical advice.
Prisoner now speak with more feeling,
emotion.
Tuesday 22./ Mor. Mr Lawson & I were in. Prisoner menti-
oned the sympathy of his frnds & sayd he desired
comfort for it, but added what is the friendship
of the world now to me, if I have not friendship of
God." He heard of X's [Christ's] sympathy with emotion.
"I have lived in pleasure, but it had a sting.
In midst of a jovial companions I wondered
I would not be happy." Here in jail the
Lord shall wipe tears time has gone swiftly
& quickly, never did it pass so quickly. the
fatal day is near. time flies & has an end
but God's mercy endureth forever."


"Lord will wipe away tears" Many thousand
tears have I shed here. and shall continue to
weep till the last. tho' now my tears are
mixed with joy. the more I feel of the
love of God, the more heinous do also my
sins appear, but his love prevents despair."
-"God's pardoning love fills me with joy
'it shall be my ??? while here and ???
eternity I shall sing; to him that loved &c"
"O that it is a precious promise, there shall
be a fountain &c.
"At first I could not attend to anything the
Ministers said to me, I could not remember
their conversationx, during the very prayers
my mind was distracted. but now I could
wish at to have them all day with me, I feel
happy in their company and happy in the
recollections." Ques. "Do you not think your
indifference arose in part; fr want of convic
tion of your sins, your supposed innocence?"
Ans. "Yes. But now I have nothing to rely
I continue as but free grace."
"I continue jealous over myself, but I sense
my strength will be equal to my day."
[Wednesday] 23./ Mr Lawson & I were in. "My best actions have
be sinful. It was my deceitful heart wh
harried me on to comission of this crime."
"I had oft good desires, but they were lost."
"I prayed in Wigton Jail, but it was for life
& liberty. my heart clave to the earth. my
treasure was there. How I hope my treasure
is in Heaven. I pray with conviction & compas
of my sins.


Tho' Devil's sin was forgiven him, yet divine
judgements were not removed in this world, so
I think, it is with me."
"My case formerly was like Israelites, who
prayed for divine direction, yet when it run
counter to their own inclinations, they wld.
not follow it; now I hope I wish to give my
whole heart to Jesus."
"I hope my inprisonment will be a blessing
to my fate. I wish it may be a warning to all.
I may have reason to bless God for it on their
account to all eternity."
[Thursday]/ 24./ Saw him at 2. Revd Anld had just come
out, with whom I had some talk. Expressed his
astonishment on Prisoner's composure.
Asked me, what I thought it arose from.
I told him, Prisoner had been convinced of
& confessed his crime, had cried for mercy,
and confessed he professed himself now to
have a good hope of Salvation. Mr Anld
did not think that the evidence was so
strong to condemn him, as the Indictment
charged him not with the Child's death
but only with that of the woman, and 
the intention of this appeared not proved;
indeed Prisoner always denies having had
the least intention of that kind.
Was not long with Prisoner, as a friend of
his came in to speak of some family
concerns, and I could not pray with him
on that account for want of time.


He said: Sting of death was now gone
These texts particularly comfortable:
God so loved world. Came not call righ
teous. J.C. came into world to save
Sinners.
Baily Shirkland had been in, I "He asked me,
said Prisoner," if I had employed my time well?
I was going to tell him / but he just went
away / that tho' it was my duty to employ
my time, I could never have done it to good pur
pose, if the Lord had not given me his grace;
and that whatever I might have done, I had
nothing to rely upon but the finished work
of Christ."
In our meeting this evening I read Luke XV
and then mentioned that this chapter had
been particularly comforting to the Prisoner,
and that I had reason to think, he had him
self felt something of that love of X. [Christ] to sinners
which is there so strikingly represented. 
We closed with an prayer kneeling during which
all seemed greatly affected.
In the night 3 ??? watchd with Prisoner.
I. Gunby told me next morning, that in the
early part of night Prisoner had been so affected
with his approaching end as to tremble, but
he grew gradually composed.
[Friday]. 25. / Execution Day. I went to the Prison soon
after 9 but hearing, that Stevenson & Lawson
& several others were in, I did not go to him. And
understanding Mr. Auld was to come at 10 and
wanted to be alone with Prisoner, I returnd
home, but went back again before 11.


Auld had not yet arrived, but he came soon.
Meanwhile I waited in the guard room
Shaw came; and when Auld came out, we
went in together. Prisoner was just then
taking leave of his brother / who had come
last night / the scene was affecting and very
trying to him; but he recovered himself in
a few monents. I had addressed & prayed with
him. I then spoke a few words, and desired him
to fix on a Psalm to be sung, he gave an mentioned Psalm 107
Gauchy presented. I then prayed. Shaw
now went away, but Maclean came in. He
spoke to him, another psalm was sung, and then
he prayd. Maclean then urged Prisoner to
pray; be did it, but seemed put to. Steven
son now came in. Maclean & I went out for
1/2 hour, and then returned. Stevenson was
still speaking to him & then prayed. Priso
ner wished the hymn no. in Wise Coll.
to be sung: "The hour of my depature's come &c.
I then prayed with him.
All present were now ordered to leave him, except us Ministers.
Stevenson now pro
posed to him to kneel down & offer a silent prayer
He did so for about 10 minutes, and uttered the
2 or 3 last sentences aloud: "Lord Jesus receive
my spirit, that I may join in the song of
praise to the Lamb, that was slain forever
& ever. He then said: "The Lord's goodness
to me hath been very great, O that I could
love him better. It was intimated, the Exe
cutioner would previously come & tie his
arms. Stevenson encouraged him very affectio


nately, reminded him, Our Savior had an expe
rimental fellow feeling with us in distress.
Just then Bailey Donaldsorn came & told him
his time was come, fell he replied. "I am ready
Sir," Executioner tied his arms behand very
gently. He went out imediately followed by
us 3 Ministers. In Outer passage went ????
& an acquaintance of his, Mr Ken of Constant
send a short paper he had signed, expression
of his thanks to Prisoner, and at ??? ?????
and that he hoped for mercy thro' atoning
blood of Jesus."
He went forward with steady steps. we
took leave of him, He spent 3 or 4 mi
nutes is silent prayer, droppe made the
sign, but executioner was not imedi
ately ready. He died almost without
struggle.
He was wonderfully composed, & to the last
asserted his hope was solely built on the
Atonement. When he had risen fr. his
last prayer in the cell, he said; "The Lord
God fear. this was his last observation,
The crowd was great, but care been taken
taken that the Prison was not crowded.
When he was suspended, Stevenson & I & the
2 Baillies the Dean of Guild went into the
Constable. He came out at 3 o'cl.
His corpse was this evening taken away by
2 Glasgow Doctors in a gig, who had to be
guarded thro' the town, a yet were pelted
wiht stones. I got home at 4 o'Cl.


lest he shoud say "peace, peace where there
is no peace" afraid his repentance is
not sufficiently deep and that he cannot
sorrow for sins as he ought. enjoys more
liberty in prayer.
[Saturday]. 12 / met with Mr Watson in the Prison, and had
not much conversation with the Prisoner.
[Monday]. 14./ Methodist minister & I had not been long in
when the Prisoner's brother, Alexander, came in
and as they were going to a last farewell of
each other, we soon left him.
[Tuesday]. 15./ Was nearly an hour alone with Prisoner,
and he talked a good deal. Revd. Arthur Stewart
of Kirkeowen / 3 miles fr. Wigton / preaches the
Gospel, is a pious old man, had great regard
for Prisoner, and was greatly affected with his
fate. Prisoner has written to him / I heard af
terwards that the Schoolmaster had written
to Alexander, the Dyer, saying Prisoner had born
a very good character in the parish; and wishing
him to visit the Prisoner./ Prisoner said, he
was going to write to his principle prosecu
tor, who, he heard, was greatly troubled now,
to assure him he died in peace with all men
and hoped God would be merciful to his soul.
Afterwards told me, he had been persuaded by a friend not to write.
Prisoner's father was a weaver, he was brought
up to that business, & had little land.
He can protest with his dying breath, that 
he did not intend to take the woman's life
was ignorant of the strength of the poison
that he got it according to her repeated requests,
was in a great hurry when he brought it her
for his father was lying upon his death bed


and would not have him to be absent that
he instructed the woman to be cautious in
the use of it, especially to keep fr. getting
cold, to which she replied, that her Master
would have little or no more Out-door
work to do for her. They did not suppose
the child to be quickend at the time, and
therefore thought it was no sin to use
means to produce abortion, they only
wished to hide their shame. I particu
larly interrogated him upon this part of
the crime, and what he now thought re
specting his conduct. He said, he now
felt convinced, that his first connexion
with the woman was a damnable  sin,
that taking life in any state of existence
& under any circumstances, not absolutely
unavoidable, was a heinous crime. He
would be absolutely without hope if it were
not, that God so loved the world &c.
Regarding his former life, he said: I was sober
honest, & generally respected, went diligently to
church, but I sought more the presise of men,
than that of God. I had no life in my soul
he saw little need of grace, & therefore never
seriously prayed for it. To what an awful
length of wickedness have I been driven,
by no resisting temptation and being left
to myself. but I hope the Lord will yet
grant me Repentance unto life.
With regard to my notions of religion they
are not grearly altered, tho' my views of the 
Gospel are clearer and I feel something
of their influence. I in a measure knew


and sometimes thought of these truths
before, but they never impreseed my mind
as they do now." The fear of death was
greatly taken fr. him, and he could be con
tented & happy to die in an ordinary way
but his death was peculiarly bitter, and he
felt especially for his friends. He was afraid
he could no so forget them as he ought to
do. I told him, it was not required, we shld
love our special concern for friends, but so
commit them to our Savior and leave them
in the hands of a faithful friend, as not to
fret & never rule? against God. Referred to
Xs [Christ's] words: "Son behold thy mother &c. This
consoled him. He said, "I with my fds. may
take warning by me, and walk cautiously
on the slippery paths of life, shld my unhappy
fate be the means of awakening, and
converting any of them, I shld have cause
to rejoice even at my misfortune. Indeed
 I wish sinners at large may take war
ning by me." "I fear the depravity of
my heart, lest I shld deceive myself in my
present hope; I think I could speak with mor assurd
assurances, if I was at large in the world,
and could had more opportunities to show
the sincerity of my Repentance."
I have been reading Luke XV. It is an en
couraging chapter. And that is a re[le]vant
passage: "Turn ye Prisoners of hope
I pointed out to him Isaiah 1-3 with
its reference in Luke IV. 18.


"The forepart of ??. I sleep little. I used to
dread this life. but now I spend it in sweet
meditation.
[Thursday]. 17./ He is 3 mos. 35 years of age was never
married, is a linen weaver. He went to
Whitehaven, In to be out of the way for a
few days not apprehending any danger.
Here he was taken while walking carelessly
about in the market. 19 weeks confined
in Wigton Jail. persuaded by all there was
not fear urged to escape, wh. cld. easily be
affected but was confident of acquittal.
"My escape would have gratified my frds
but now I think I have reason to be
thankful I did not do it."
"At first when I came here, I had not appa
tite but I forced myself, as people said I
was going to starve myself, I wished not
clamour to be raised for my gt. sins was
the praise of man, or I would not come here."
???? he wld not have done what he
did to hide his shame/
"David watered his couch with his tears
Mary M. bathed X's [Christ's] feet, but my hard heart
does not feel that compunction, O for
deeper sorrow!"
"Peter said, Lord thou knowest I dare not
say so, but I may say: thou knowest I de
sire to love thee, O what beauty is there
in our Savior."
 "When I was very young; I had a woman
with child, it greatly distressed me, and I 
long desird it but I then setted something
upon the child." I afterwards avoided


