Depd July 17 h 1761
The Course of Life of the Single Sr Esther Moor.
I was born Augst 15 th 1715 in the Parish of Huddersfield. My Parents
went home when I was 5 Years old, and from that Time till my 22d
Year I lived with my Uncle and Aunt in Mirfield, from thence I
went to live with a Minister and his Wife, who behaved very kind
and friendly to me, only they disapproved of my going to Mr Inghams
preaching; but being under great concern of Mind I could not forbear,
therefore was obliged to leave that Place and take to keep house
alone, and maintained myself by my own Work, that I might there
by be at Liberty to go when and where I pleased, being under great un-
easiness of Heart and Mind about my Salvation, I gladly embraced
every Opportunity of conversing with those in my situation, soon after this
Br Ockershousen came & settled Societies in those parts, & I was favour'd
by being admitted a Member of the same, which was a great Grace to
me. I became more chearfull in my Heart & soon after I was directed
to live with some Srs at Robertown; and in this fellowship I felt more
of my lost Condition and prerceived I had not a true feeling of our Savr in
my heart, which gave me great concern. At the Meeting of the Bands wch
was kept wch was kept by Br & Sr Ockershousen, I enjoyed particular
Blessings, for to them I could speak my whole Mind, which was a great
Grace and Comfort to my Heart. When the Oeconomy began at Clag-
heaton, those Srs with whom I had lived, removed thither, but as
I was not fovour'd with that happy lot, its caused me much Smart
and many Tears to be separated from them. But here I experienc'd
what my Savr was to me, he indeed approved himself my Friend
and comforted me over all my pain of Heart. In about 6 Months after
this I went to live with my Choir Companion Mary Liley at High
town, which was a great Joy & Happiness to me, for we liv'd comfort
ably and enjoy'd the Grace & Nearness of our dearest Savr in fellow
ship, being both in one Class. The only Anxiety I felt here was the fear
that this Sr would be removed from me; she being received into
the Congn before me, made this fear to go very near to my Heart,
least I should be left alone, but in the Year 51 I enjoyed that ^great Grace also


it was indeed an inexpressible favour to one to be united to his 
dr Congn. In this blessed fellowships & School of Grace I got a
Stronger assurance of his rich forgiveness thro Special Nearness
of his Wounded Person, and tho' I felt I had but him much smart
and pain, yet my Savr proved himself a faithfull tender friend to me
his helpless Child, who enjoyed the grace Care & Nursing of my Choir
with great Blessing, for wch I can never be thankfull enough to
my dearly & beloved Heart, Sr Mary who was always ready to to
help me both in my outward & inward Situations, for to her I could
tell my whole mind, and she by good Experience cou'd comfort me
in all my Needs, here I'm wanting Words to express the thank
fullness I feel for what I've enjoy'd from her blessed Care & labour,
in the same year that I was received I had the Grace to become a Par
ticipant of the holy Comunion, my Unworthiness humbled me very much
and I his poor Sinner enjoyed his holy Corpse and Blood as a healing Balsam
for my Soul and Body. In the Year 55 when Gumersall Oeconomy begun I
had the Grace to be one in the first company who had leave to live there
which was a great Joy and Satisfaction to me, in this dear Place I enjoy'd
a chearfull satisfyed Course of 4 Years, tho' not without ^a great a desire to
live in the Choir House, which favour was granted me in the Year
58 to my inexpressible joy of heart and Mind, my dearest Bridegroom
got many a Sinner Tear and daily wishes that I might become a
Joy and sanctifi Satisfaction to him & those dear Srs under whose
care I had the Grace to be: So far her own Words.
Our Sr being of a weak constitution made the enjoyment of her
Choir Course here an inexpressible Grace to her, wch thro all Visi
cissitudes was testified by her Bashfull behaviour to the last, as also
her having a deep Insight into her Poverty of wheart, which she
spoke of many Times with Tears to her dear Labourers, & bowedly
confess'd how unworthy she was of the blessings she enjoyed.
As her Strenght begun to fail she was much inclined be to be dejected
about her outward coming thro' Being no Hero her Anxious Disposi
tion would have depress'd her much, if she in a particular maner had not


not been tenderly encouraged by her Srs and our dear Savr, who
by his precious Nearness preserved her chearfull and contented.
In the Month of June she begun to be very weakly & her disor=
der which proved to be a Consumption. Being often ask'd: If she had
not a desire to go into the Sick Room and enjoy a more peace=
full rest & nursing: she answered that she rathere chose to con=
tinue among the Srs, wch help'd her to pass away her time
without reflecting much on her Bodily pain. On the 5th
of July she was present at the holy Communion with the Congn, 
which she believed would be the last time, tho few about
her thought so, except a couple, to whom she had committed unicated
some intimations, which she had of her departure some
time after before, which she thro' timorousness was fear=
full of believing; tho' the impression was laid strongly
on her mind that now our Savr would verify to her what she
had seen and felt in a dream. She saw here lovely Friend ap=
pear before her. She sunk with awe & trembling before him,
but in a moment she bowedly called to mind, that he was a
Sinners Friend, the as a worm she crept unto his Feet & kiss'd
the nailprints ther; at the great opening of in his Side she felt
herself particularly overcome. But our dear Savr told her I am
not come to fetch you now, which gave her great concern.
What she felt when as a Sinner she kiss'd her dr Lords feet, was
of such reallity to her that the impression never left her, & in her
last Moments she burn'd with glowing comfort in her Heart, that
she as a poor Sinner would soon enjoy in full completion, the
Treasures in her Wounded Friend. On the 4th she in a few Words
took a tender farewell of the Srs in her work room, of wch they had such
a feeling that they believed it would be the last Time, she immediately
took to her Bed wch had been for some time in the Sick Room,
and on the 16th in the Evening she begun to alter very much, &
had a violent heat upon her Lungs, & taking Notice of her Hands


she said how corpse like they appear. When ask'd if she thought
that she wd go this Night to our dearest Savr, she answered: No,
and pressed the Srs who watched with her to go to bed, for she
would give notice when Sr Mary shou'd be fetch'd, which was
accordingly done between the Hours of 6&7 in the Morning of
the 17th when she fell softly asleep in her Bridegrooms
Arms, during the blessing of her Choir with that Verse:
So go then go, dear Heart & Hide
Deep in thy Bridegroom's bleeding Side.


