Our late sr Sarah Mortimer who departed happily Jan. 2 1810 at Fulneck 
Our happily departed Sr Sarah Mor
timer, was born June 3 1780 at Scoles
in the parish of Birstal, and baptized
in the Church of England. Her Mother
dy'd before she was a year old, and she
being a very weakly Child & not likely
to live, was put out to be nursed to
a married Br & Sr in Wyke, who had no
Children, & who took so much care of 
her in every respect, as if she had been
their own Child. Sthe was sent to the 
Brns School in Wyke as soon as her
health would perpi admit of it, It
was then conducted by the sisters Mary 
Watson / now in Gracehill/ and Benigna
Planta / now in Okbrook./ who both with 
this good advice to the Children, often
remainded them, how needful is was, not
only to come to School to work &c.
But also to get an impression of our
Saviour's love, that they might be happy, 
and grow up for him, who had suffered
so much for us. They used every week
to learn Verses out of the Hymn Book.
This was a favourite imployment of hers,
and with the rehearsal of them, she


often edified those people she lived
with; and it was by these means she felt
the first imprission of our Saviour's
love towards her. Living near the 
Srs House she was often visited by
them, and had the favour to go in 
and out amongst them, whereby she
got a desire to belong to the Brns
Congn. Her Father being agreable
to it, both she and her Sr obtained
leave to live in the Srs Oeconomy at Little More
and moved thither March 14th 1792,
where she enjoyed manyy blessings,
especially in attending the meetings at
Fulnek. When that Oeconomy broke
up, in 1794, she with some more Srs
moved to Wyke. She would rather
have gone to Fulneck; but in a short
time grew became reconciled about to it, and 
indeed she never found reason to re
pent. That small family lived at  
that time very happily together, and in a bles
sed course; particularly amongst the 
great Girls, each was zealous, to get be
fore the other in prospserity. From this Period


she dated her the foundation of her happiness
which was laid more deep and sure in the all atoning 
sacrifice of a Crucified Saviour and
Redeemer. Nov. 30th the same year she
was rec'd into the Congregation, & Jan. 10th 1796
had the favour to partake for the first
time of the H. Comn, and the year
following 4th of May she was rec'd into 
the Sgle Srs choir. Soon after this it
happened to be a very trying time, 
as the Srs could get no work for several
months, on which account many returned
to their homes; but she not being willing to return home,
chose to stay, tho' her living should be ever
so poor. But our merciful heavenly
Father who knows the wants of all
his Children; raised up some particular
friends, who assisted them with every
thing most nessecary; so that those, whose
faith was only as a Grain of Mustard seed,
and stayed nevertheless was quite put to shame.
She often spoke of that period with 
gratitude, and it inabled her to place
her whole dependance on our Saviour


both with regard to her internal and 
external course. In 1801 she rec'd a
appointment to have the care of
the great Girls in Gumersal Tho she
felt herself unfit for such a situate
yet she submitted to it out of Obe
diance; and calling to mind, how
much the Lord had done for her,
she thought it was but little what
she could do in return. We can give
her that testimony, that she was faith-
ful in the charge committed to her
not only in teaching them their work,
but in making their internal prosperity, was a
subject of her progress. She had of
late years several heavy trails, which
affected her much; but our Saviour
in whom she put her trust and con-
fidence, supported her, so that she
with resignation submitted to his will
In the beginning of last year /1810/ she 
got a heavy could which settled on her 
Lungs, and made her feel very weak
and poorly; in Sept. she came here


to Fulnek to partake of the H. Comn
in fellowship with her Choir; being
over taken in a heavy storm of thun-
der, and lightening, she was much agi-
tated and grew worse from that time,
Now and then she had a faint hope
of her recovery; but feeling nevertheless miser
able her health and strength declin-
ing, she was soon resigned to our
Saviours will. It was her earnest
wish and prayer that he would show
her every guilt, & chance & purify her
from every stain in his precious Blood, 
that she might appear before him as a 
pardoned reconciled sinner; When an 
anxious thought at times would arise;
she was inabled with confidence to 
look to him, whose strengtht was
made perfect in her weakness. 
She would often express herself to 
the following purpose:
"Ah! when I look back on past years, 
I cannot help weeping for grief,
But Christ wipes away all my tears,


And readily grants me relief: 
By faith I behold in his wounds
A cure for my sins and self-will;
His goodness towards me abounds,
And his hand is held over me still."
During her confinement she injoyed
twice the H. Comn which was a great
refreshment and strengthtning to her. 
She loved & was beloved, & was truly
thankful for every kindness shown
towards her. She bore her pains
with great petions patience, and often said:
"Dear Saviour! help me," and also 
asked her friends to pray for her.
Jany 2d 1811 the happy moment came
when she was permitted to leave
this world, and see him face to face
in whom she here believed.
Aged 30 years and 6 Months. 


