The little girl Mary Mortimore
was born at Puttenham June 3d 1753, where
her Parents at were at that time in the service
of the Congn, & she & her Bn Peter were brought by
her Father into the Oeconomies here at the same
time on the 25th of Decr. 1755. It was a little hard
for her to settle & be at home in the Oeconomy, but
hearing that her Br Peter whom she also loved much
was likewise here, who it was a great satisfaction
to her, & in a little time she became quite chearfull
& satisfied among her Companions, and she became
a lively & chearfull little girl who often spoke with the
rest of our dr Saviours Love to the Childn- and used to
go often into a corner, & pray our Savr to make her a happy
Child, and frequently wished that she might see Him. She
loved singing & learnt many pretty verses. In the yr 60
she moved with some other Childn out of the little into
the middle Girl's Room, she was at first very glad of
this alteration, but soon found that she had a new school Lesson to learn we
 which wch was before unacquainted wth - her work was
also burthensome to her. She was naturally of a hot dis-
position & apt to be hasty in speaking, but when it was
the case, it caused her smart, was a sinner & begged both
the Srs & childn to forgive her, as she grew in Years, she
grew more acquainted with her poverty & often said; that she
was the worst child in the Room & gave our Savr & the Srs there
trouble than any of the rest. she was upright & open=
hearted in all her matters, & thus she gained the Love of all the
Srs.- May 2d 1763, she moved out of the middle girls Room
into that of the greater girls, here she retained her simple
& upright disposition, and whenever she committed a fault
she or was not a Sinnerlike connection with our
Savr. she could not be easy or satisfied till she felt that our
Savr & her Srs had forgiven her.- she frequently wrote


bandlike Letter to her Labouress in which the ten-
derness of her Heart was very perceptible; before the last
childns Festival she wrote as follows: "As this is the
Day when so many Children made a Covenant with our
Saviour, that they would be His entirely, it is my Heart's
desire to do so too, as I think it will be the last Festival
which I shall enjoy in the Childns Choir. I wish I may not
go out of the Hall, till my Covenant is sealed between Him
& one, for I know that if I do not make a good use of the
few Months which I have yet to spend in the Childns Choir
it will be always a grief to me, but if ^I spend this Day To the
rest of my Days I spend in the Nearness of my dr Savr
then I shall take the blessing along with me, throughout
all the Days of my Life."- the Childns Congn Days were
always dear & weighty to her, and when she was once
not allowed to be present at one of them, she shed many 
Tears, and prayed earnestly to our Savr that it might
never be the case again.
This last Yr she with some others began to team to
play on the Spinnet & to sing, which was a great Joy to
her, and as she was one of the Compn of singers among
the girls, & she sometimes had sung for the Congn or her
Choir, it was a great Grace to her, & she said it was a
blessing for her own Heart. She enjoyed a particular
blessing for her Heart on the last memorable 13 of Novr
mentioned it often & said she should never forget it.
abt the middle of Decr she began to be sickly, and tho'
all possible means were used, she grew more & more
sick so that on the 24 th she moved into the sick Room,
and her fever encreased so that she was from that
time confined to her Bed.- when the rest of the Childn
went to the Night Watch she said "Our Savr knows that
I cannot go with them, & therefore He will bless me &
be near me on my Bed." on the 26th she desired to
be left alone as she wanted to keep a band with our
Saviour, which she did in a very love tender manner
desiring him to make her soon ready, and take her


to Himself; and afterwards seeing: I feel & know it well
yea I do truly feel, that one drop of thy Blood, to me
so very good for this poor Heart of mine, yet still
for more I pine, and this she sung with such a
feeling that it will not be soon forgot by those who
heard her.- from that time she was stedfast in
her point, that she should go home, the same day in the
afternoon she fell into a soft sleep, and Said in her sleep
with a loud voice: "Yes, I will come!" and this awoke
her, the Sr who was with her Said asked her where she wd
go, she replied: "to our Savr- she was sure of it, it was
no fancy, for," continued she, "when I spoke of wth our Savr
and was thinking of those who are already with Him. it
was as if somebody said to me, you shall come also, and
it rejoiced me exceedingly." then she sung wth a clear voice
Amen come Lord Jesus! do not long tarry &c thus she
spent her restless nights & Days in tender conversation
with her best Friend, letting him what a poor worthless
creature she was, & as such she wd go to him, for one Door
of his precious Blood could heal both good & bad, and what
she enjoyed here was worth a thousand Worlds. when her
pain was very extreme, & she was reminded of what
our dr Savr felt & suffered for her, she was directly as patient
as a Lamb & said: yes our Saviour felt pain out of Love to
me, but my pain is not out of Love to Him, but because
I am a poor Creature, was it is his good pleasure that
I should feel it, I am satisfied. Jany 1st she asked: What
Day is it? being told: It was New Years Day. have I
made every thing up wth every Body being told that
every one was satisfied with her, she said: Our Savr has
forgiven me every thing & I am quite ready whenever
He pleases to take me the she constantly showed  particular Love & thankfulness
which she showed to every One who did any thing for her
and often asked, whether every one was satisfied wth her
saying. I know that I am a poor Creature, but when I come
to our Savr I will kiss his wounded feet a thosd times
for all the Srs.- her chearfull & serene countenance
wch was the effect of her constant conversation wth our Savr!


was agreeable & edifying to everyone that came near
her. In the eveng she was seized wth convulsions, but
they went of & she came to herself again tho' she had fre
quent returns of them as long as she staid in the Body
the 3d the desired once more to see her Brethren & her sr
they were brought to her, she asked them to sing for her
which they did, and she herself gave out the verses wch
they should sing, and then she took a tender & moving 
leave of them. She spoke often of her dr Parents & desired
Bn Miller when he wrote to give her tender Love to then
& tell them added she "that I am gone happily to our Savr
she thus continued speaking & singing. night & day to the very
last, on the 5th she wanted to be washed and drest in white
for she said: "Our Savr will soon come." she asked who
was in the Room? being answered: "nobody but the Sr
who is with You." she said: "Yes, our Savr is here, do
you not see him, He is coming." there was indeed in
that a moment a particular feeling of his Presence
in the Room, in the event tho' she would willingly sing Yet
her faltering tongues could scarcely utter the words, and it
was soon plain that her dissolution drew nigh,
which accordingly came to pass a little before
10' oClock in the evening when she fell softly & hap=
pily asleep & flew into the Arms & Bosom of her
eternal Bridgroom with the Blessing of her
Choir, while these sines were sung; Pale lips, kiss
her upon her Heart. Open Arms, take her, hand
spent in this mortal Life 11 Years 7 Mos & 2 Days


