
Our dear Sr Martha Naylor was
born in Tonge Febr 26th 1698.
Her Parents were of the established
Religion, in
she was from her infancy of a quiet
& still disposition, she lived with
her Parents, made after
whether till she grew up, but then went
to service with a Ww. Gentlewoman,
wth whom she lived a year, when
her Father departed this Life, she
went to her Mother, and helped her
in her Affairs as a dutifull Daugh
ter, till she was married in Febr
1719 to the present Wwer, our Brn
James Naylor, she was from the
Beginning a tender & submissive
Wife, & when she had Children, she
was a loving good & faithfull Mother,
but as she was concerned about
her own salvation, & wanted to
please God, so she would never allow
her Children to speak or do any thing
wch she thought was not right; she
took great delight in reading or
in hearing them read in some good
Book & in general her peace able
& much disposition gained the Love
and Affection of all her Neighbours.


tho' she had often emotions of Grace in her Heart
before, yet she was first truly awaken'd
at the time of the general awakening
in this Country, and what she heard
of our Savr made a deep impression
in her Heart, & she never lost it at any
time, she was together with her Husband
of the first who were recd into the Societies
which the Brn settled here, and as she
lived at that time at Lane End, she had
a constant oppurtunity of being in
the Company of the Brn & Srs which was
always a great joy to her. she had the
Grace to be embodied into the at that time
little Congn here, by reception
Decr 25th 1743 O.S.
Jany 5th 1744 N.S.
which she prized as an invaluable grace
& which she kept held precious to her last
moment. it was not long before her Joy was
still farther heighten'd by her being ad
mitted to the participation of the Corpse
& Blood of Jesus in the H. Communion
wch ineffable blessing she enjoyed the
first time July 20/31, the same yr. this Grace
she has enjoyed uninterruptedly ever
since that time. in the yr 46. the Srs
began their House keeping in one of the
Houses at Lane End, & she & her Husband
 took them by the advice of the
Brn to board, with them she acted herein for a yr
as a faithfull House Mother, & her
Service herein remains unforgotton
upon a new Regulation in the Brn House


and the Beginning of Cong. House
keeping in Br Hall she & her Husband were called
into the Service of the Family, in
which she continued as a faithfull
& meek Hand maid of Jesus, ready
to serve each little one of our Lord,
till that House keeping broke up in
the yr 53. When she her Husbd
and also she according, to her strength
continued still in the Service of the
Farm at Deary. in the midst of the
harvest Work she was patient &
unwearied, inoffensive, & her quiet
Spirit wch was sinnerlikely engaged
wth the Wounded Friend of her Heart
was an edification to all around her.
When the Compy of Priests was
enlarged Novr 3d 1759 during our
dr Johannes's Visit here, she & her
husband were added there unto, her
hours of intercourse wth her beloved
and unseen Friend were very weighty
to her, & she enjoy'd in them a blessing
for her Heart, while she faithfully laid
before the dr divine Family whatever
was in Heart concerned the Folk who
prize Jesus' Torments.` on the 13th of
Novr in the same yr, she & her
Husband were accepted as Acoluths
& she was really a helper in the
House of our Lord. In the Yr 1760.
a new Regulation was made in the
and Choir, when a Nr of Br & Srs


appointed to band Servts or Keeper in
that Choir, she was also of that No
& had the Band of the Elder md Srs in
the Place Congn, & that of the Communi
cant md Srs whose Husbands are not
participants of that Grace in the
Pudsey Congn in both these bands
she approved as a motherly & anointed
Sr was exceeding beloved a respected
by her Srs & a peculiar Grace rested
upon her Bands. in general she was
tho' a still & quiet Soul, who thought
little of herself, & made no great show
a much respected & beloved Sr whose
Grace & attachment to the Wounds of
Jesus obtained the Love not only of
her own Choir, but of every Br & Sr 
who knew her & it was her highest
pleasure to serve where ever she cd 
she was also a Servt in the Hall
as long her Strength wd permit.
In the beginning of Feby she became
sickly, & it appeared at first as if she
was getting a cancerous Disorder, &
the symtoms were such, that they
immediatly portended her Dissolution
tho' it seem'd as if it wd continue some
time, she took it, as she did every
circumstance as from our Savr, &
tho' it was attended wth acute pain
yet she was unvariedly patient &


resigned to her dearest Lord. speaking
once of her pain to Br & Sr. La Trobe,
she said: "it is easy to be bore, my Savr
suffered infinitely more oh (added she)
I remember a time when I should have
been glad to have lain down in a Ditch
and to have died there in the greatest
misery, if I could only have been sure
that I should be saved, & gone to our
Savr., I may now easily be contented
since I have known him & that I shall
go to him, & that above 20 Years wth
out the least Doubt." she was visited
frequently by the Srs of all Choirs, and
as she sat constantly up, not being
able to lie on acct of her Disorder.
she was ready to receive them & in
speaking once wth Sr Held, who was
her old acquaintance about the
happiness of a simple wth our dr Savr
and the Congn she said: "I have seen
many who have ruined or hurt them
by their insimplicity & reasoning
but I thank our Savr who preserved
frm reasoning at all abt the Congn, or
my Brn or Srs amidst all those things
which I have seen, but I have been
kept to my point. her Husband soon
gave her up to her eternal, tho' the thoughts
of their separation was very painfull
to him, she begged of him frequently
to keep close to our dr Savr & the Brn
till he should follow her.  She declared


to her Son, how happy she was in the
midst of her Pain thro' her Savrs precious
Nearness, that she was quite overpowered
wth His Love upon his asking her, whe
ther she was satisfied wanted anything, she answer'd No
"I am entirely satisfied, I have him
"near me & that's enough." she recom
mended to him, to be as help full to his
old Father as he could, & to others, she
often expressed her Joy on acct of her
Sons Happy Lot. before that sometime 
before her sickness she laid every thing
in order for the dressing her Corpse, &
sent for the Sr who makes the Grave Cloak
that she might lay every thing at hand
that shd be wantg, she also desired
that her old band Srs of the Place might
bring her Corpse to the Hall, & prayed
that the full Music might play before
her Corpse at her interment, & appoint
a little L.F. for them. when the Brn & Srs
visited her she delighted to hear them
sing of her beloved, & joined wth them as
often as she could. before the Communn
she desired to enjoy it as soon as possi
ble for added: "I only wait for that."
according early on Sunday Br Schulze
brought it to her, she recd wth her dr Hus
band for the last time, & when it was
over she said "I am much refreshed".
this she also told Br La Trobe who visited
her that Day, & said, it was inexpressi


ble, I have now nothing more to wait
for. the next morng being the 10th
she awoke abt 4o' Clock out of a
sweet sleep* & immediatly said desired to
sayg I come! I come!
the Sr who waited upon her; to call her
James. He came directly, & then she
said, I am now going to our Savr
fare thee well! & directly she cd say
no more, but it seemed as if her Soul
wd take quickly it's flight, accordingly
Br Schulze was sent to who called
Br & Sr La Trobe, there was soon
a little Compy abt her who kept a
Liturgy, but she was yet to wait
a few hours longer, & seemed to revive
again, so that she could speak, &
was taken in the afternoon out of
Bed. through these last hours of her
Mode here she was frequently visited
and Liturgies were kept at her
Bed Side, & there was in truth an
ineffable feeling of the Presence of
her tormented Lover who waited far
the hour to kiss her Soul into himself.
directly after the Burial of the Corpse of Sr Grace
Wilson, in whose Compy she sd some
weeks before she said she wd go to
our Savr Br Schulze thought I'll
go see how Sr Naylor does, as he
came near the Door, her Son came
out & beckoned him, he just came


in time to keep the last Liturgy wth
her, and at singing those Words
which she had desired to be sung
at her dismission: Now go then,
go dear Heart & hide, deep I say
deep into the Side, her dr Husband
blessed her, & her precious fled im
mediatly to her so much beloved, wounded
and eternal Husband; thus she
fell softly & happily asleep in the
65th year of her Age, & in the 44th Yr 
of her md State in which she bore
3 Childn of wch a Daughter returned
soon to it's Mother City, her Son is
our dr John Naylor, Choir Servt in
the Brns House, & a Daughter who
is married & is a Friend of the Brn 
thus she has attained her highest
wish, & her Memory is odouriferous
in the Congn below.


