Departed June 2d 1761.
The great Boy James Oates was born at Norwood Green in 7th
Parish of Halifax Sept the 14th 1745, was baptized in ye Church of England,
but has been amongst ye Brn from a Child, during which State he was always bore
ye Character of plain downright & honest, was beloved by ye Labourer of the Plan wherein
he lived & of those
by the Childns Father
who visited him from time to time for his genuine Simplicity.
He was rec'd into the great Boys Choir Jany ye 13th 1760, after which it was
obvious, that the getting a true acquaintance with the Man of Sorrows lay
very near his Heart. When he was visited & spoke with from time to time by
his Choir Labourers they always found him ye same Simple & openhearted
course, andently desiring to become a Joy to that Heart which broke in Death for
him; for which reason the Close of his Conversation with them was generally
about coming into ye Choirhouse, where he might spend his time uninterrupted
by in a true Devotion of Soul & Body to ye humanity of Christ, the Boys Choir
heads & Prince. Accordingly this favour was granted him Apr. ye 21st 1760 to his
inexpressible Joy. The Business which he followed in ye Choirhouse was that
of a Stuffweaver, which he began with his father while at home principally
and exercised great Diligence thereat principally with a View to come soon
into ye Choirhouse & that there he might be as little burthensome as possible.
He shewd as much Diligence at his Work here as one could well expect of a Boy in
his Years, but being naturally of an active turn of mind & strong in body he often
sollicited to be put to another business which required harder Labour & more Ex-
ercise. But this being not convenient according to our Circumstances, he was
told to pursue that business which he had learnt. Herein he shewd such an unfeig-
ned obedience as was exemplary to all of other Boys. (However by his continual
sitting & faithfulness at his work it is supposed the Disorder he got in his Bowels
was contracted.) About a Year ago he first begen to complain of a Pain in his Bowels
which sometimes was so violent th as obliged him to leave of Work & keep to his Room,
wherein obedience he made use of all Medicines given to him by our Physician, but
his Desire to be again amongst ye Boys at his Work, was sometimes ye Moti for
his saying he was well when it was not entirely so. However his Disorder seemingly
left him, & he began to gather Strength, but secretly his Thoughts were principally
set upon going home, which he often utter'd to his Labours with longing tears & even
was so sure of this Point, that he desired his Companions in ye Shop to take notice
that he would be at home with our Savr & his tabernacle laid in ye burying Ground before
next Midsummer. This he also told the Boy Wm Ashley when he was waiting for his last
kiss last last October, that he would be with him before Midsummer.
In this situation he
went on, improving in
the knowledge of himself
& acquaintance with that
Heart who confesses himself
to the poor & needy; Confideng
tow and clear admist all
the Sensations of his own
Poverty & often weeping
after the Soul of Christ
whose Comunucation he
found to be his life.
He was rec'd into the Congn March yes 23d last, to his great Joy & Abasement,
for he often said when others were rec'd he was not worthy of such a great Grace; Soon


after which he began to sicken with his old Disorder & was obliged to betake
himself entirely to ye Sickroom. His first Thoughts were: now I shall go home
notwithstanding which he was obedient to ye Physicians in taking every thing he
prescribed & soon became such a Compainion to his Sickwaiter as he Scarcely ever
had before for his Sinerlikeness, gratitude, clearness of heart & constancy in ye
enjoyment of our Savr. His Patience in his Sickness & Pain was astonishment
to everybody, which was alleviated by nothing but his heart living in the Torments
Pain & Anguish of his beloved, whose Nearness & Converse was the Occupation of
his Soul by Day & Night. If any Br or Boy wanted to refresh himself he know
not how to do it better than by visitng our dr Jas. Oates, who was always found
conversing most intimately with our Savr with Clearness & Serenity & oftentimes
with Tears. In his Sleep this happy converse was not interrupted, but went on in
the same track as when awake, being often heard speaking with our Savr by those
who watch'd with him 
saying: my good Savr, my
dear Savr, my best Savr!
There was nothing at all of falsehood or obliquity to be
found in him, but that same downright honest openhearted & genuine Simplicity
Shun in all his Words & Actions constantly panting for the last kiss.
May the 9th he was all the Day in an Extali, continually occupied with our
Savr & his coming so that the Hearts of many Brn who heard him were melted &
their Eyes overflowd. He often enquird about John Morgan, who lay ready for ye
departing kiss with him in ye same room & express'd his Concern for him, wishing
him safe with our Savr. He also mentioned something of the Band he kept with
Jo. Morgan in the begining of his Sickness & declared of himself how it had been
with him & how he had spent his time before he came to ye knowledge of our Savr,
that since that time our Savr slept before his heart he had loved him with all his
might, but was ashamed his Love was not stronger, Since the friend of his Soul
had done so much for him & earn'd his Soul & Body a thousand times over.
Upon being asked whether he would choose to go to our Savr now or wait untill He
came to visit the Congn, his answer was, I cannot stay, he has charmed my
Heart, but if it pleased our Savr I would do either; often uttering at Intervalls
On the first Sight of him persenally! & frequently call'd out Sleepd & waking:
My Savr come soon!
While the Congn were enjoying the Lords Course in the Congn Hall about 5
Mimtes before Jo. Morgan went home (tho' he knew nothing of Morgans Situa-
tion) he burst out in this prophetic Strain, saying to himself. "Yes, yes, my Savr
I now see thou will come soon, Yes I know thou wilt, Ay, Ay, thou will, oh yes
I see it very plain, I see thou art a-coming, Ay, Ay, thou at there a-smiling,
Thou art coming just now &c." When he was told our Savr had taken Jo. Morgan
to himself, he said, I am glad of it & thank him with Joy; now I only wish he


would soon come & pay me such another Visit, the sooner the better.
The 14th The Boys of his Room visited him, he was very lively & told them
how happy he was & how much he longed to be at home; he wish'd none might
withold their hearts from our Savr, for his sufferings deserved a thousand times
more then what they were able to give him, and sayd how happy it would be it
each of them might obtain the favour which he was a Candidate for. On being
told that perhaps our Savr had some Views with some of them for which they must
stay yet longer here below, he replied, "it is very probable, but may they then be
good Hearts, give him Joy & execute his views, as for me it is my happy Lot to
go home." He then made his Observations upon some of ye Boys, & lastly
they sung several Verses for him, a happy melting feeling attended the whole
A Brr who had the Watch
with him observing the Boy
in a gentle Slumber sat down
in Stilness & feel into a Doose,
when imediately he was awake
again with Dream that our
Savr came into the Room & 
looking with Surprise
found the Boy awakd, who
call'd him & ask'd him, who
that was that came into the
Room & awoke him. The Br.
replied, I saw nobody. Yes, says
the Boy, there somebody did
awake me, & I believe it was
our Savr.
The 21st when the Meeting was over in which the Congn had been singing"
O Jerusalem above &c (tho unknown to him) he sent for the Labourer & said
I only wanted to tell you, I think it cannot be long before our Savr comes &
takes me with him, I have such a feeling of him as I cannot express, only he
is very near. This he utter'd with a most tender feeling & Tears on both Sides
Then a Band was kept. The Conclusion was: I have the best Prospect before
me, I have not long to continue here, I perceive plainly my Friend draws nearer
& nearer.
The 26th He was uncomonly pretty, talk'd charmingly about our Savr
& his happiness in him. Awaking from Sleep he called out to his Sickwaiter
& said: Well Charles, now it is all over, now I have no more pain, for I have
seen our Savr, have been with him, kiss'd his Wounds, & he told me he would
come again very soon, & take me with him to himself. This he utterd with such
a Countenance is captivated the Sickwaiter. He then desired his Labourer
might be call'd, a when he came into the room he lifted up his weak head & said
with a Smiling pleasant Mien: I have been with our Savr, & there was a most
Charming Company with him, & bonnily did they sing, ay bonnily, right bonnily,
& pretty it was, I never heard such bonny singing before. Being ask'd what
they sung, he answerd with a broken Voice: The Wounds, the Wounds of our
dear Savr & all abou this Blood & how he suffer'd, &they also sung, that it was
all done for me, & a great deal more, but I cannot tell it you all; I am sure
if you had heard it you would say so too, I know he'll not be long before he comes again
& that will be a fine coming for me.
Monday June the 1st in ye morning early Br Abm took his leave of him
before he set out upon his Journey for Lindsey house. He lay the whole day in a
happy Sabathu stillness, looking out for his Friend & chearing the Minds & Hearts


of everyone who visited him. The 2d In the Forenoon he had another
happy Band with his Labourer, about that first Moment when he should
embrace the wounded feet of his Savr & said, I can hold it out no longer,
to day my Joy will be compleated. In the Afternoon it appeared evident
that his beloved Bridegroom drew near his heart with Smiles of Grace,
but his Speech failing him it was difficult to understand what he
utterd. After the Choir Evening blessing the Labourer went up to the
Sickroom, found him in a manner absent to all about him, uttering
something to himself. My dear Savr, my precious Savr, my good Savr
& as soon as that Verse was sung for him. Now he does get Permission
to leave this mortal Tent & he lift up his Eyes with such a charming
Glance as captivated the minds of all about him, seemingly intimation
he look'd for his last Blessing, whereupon it was imparted to him
during the Singing of that Verse: O thou holy tormented Corpse,
do as Elisha did, he is the Child with a penetrating feeling of the
precious Nearness of the Friend of his Soul, in whose Arms & Bosom
he fell softly & happily asleep without any other Signs then of a
Person doasing into the most agreeable Slumber with the
Blessing of his Choir in the 16th Year of his Age.


