The youth Sebastian Okely departed May 8.
1827 at Fulneck.
My dear Brother was born at Wyke in
the year 1809. His early life may be well known
to any young man, who has been educated in
the bosom of the Brns Church. The latter
portion of his short experience existence, is
well known to his instructors & companions;
and, by them, is allowed, I believe, to be u-
niformly pleasing. He had, however, some
opportunities of seeing the ways of the world,
and then it was that we particularly had
the means of observing his state of mind.
He invariably manifested the most de-
termined disgust at the wickedness of
which he might be an unintentional
spectator. Indeed his sensibilities were
sometimes painfully acute, so much as
to affect his bodily health.
In his family, he was dutiful & affecti-
onate, although possessed of an indepen-
dent & active mind; and he took the
most unequivocal and lively interest in
the affairs of every branch of it. It might
have been expected, perhaps, that one so a-
miable & christianlike in his conduct would
when thrown upon a bed of sickness, have
been an example of resignation, and fill


ed with bright hopes of a glorious eternity.
But this was not the will of the Lord.
His conduct on his death bed, was to prove
that we all are alike sinners, and equally
stand in need of repentance & forgiveness.
and that it is not because, thro' his mercy,
we are preserved from the temptations of
of this world, we are better than those around
us.
In this point of view his con-
with versations with his dear Mother & Sister
were very edifying. On Tuesday, May 1st
his sister asked him if he would like to see
the texts. "Yes," he said, "very much. I have
neglected those things too much."
Upon being reminded, that attention in
itself, even to spiritual things, is no recom-
mendation for acceptance with God, our Saviour,
but that the more sinner-like we feel, the
more willing he is to receive us, he appeared
comforted. Upon her giving him the Text
Book, he expressed how much he feared what
he had to look forward to, and how weak
he felt.
She left the room & when she
returned, he was sobbing violently
After gaining a little breath, he said, "July,
I must not cry. It will not do for me, my
breath is almost spent; but that text is so
very striking; it is too good for me, alluding


to the words, "Hear none of those things which
thou will suffer." She told him he must
^not look forward, but be assured our Saviour
would fulfil his promise, and give him
strength according to his day.
Offering to read to him from the Bible,
he was pleased.
From this time, until the arrival
of his mother & brother, he could not bear
much conversation, altho' the visits of
Br Reichel & Libbey, gave him much
pleasure.
On the morning of the day of his
departure, he was not able to bear read-
ing, having passed a suffering night
His brother, who sat by his bed-side, be-
ing affected by the expectation of his
approaching dissolution, he said, firm
ly fixing his eyes on him, "I can't cry,
I am past crying." Talking of the
night he had spent & the struggle he
had gone thro', he turned to his mo-
ther & said," I was wonderfully support-
ed, was such dear Mamma?
Owing to his course thro' life being
easy, and without many of those
impleasant circumstances, miscalled


misfortunes, which fall to the lot
of man, he clung to it with more
tenacity than was wished. This was
likewise increased, by his being de-
void of pain, and his possessing, with
unusual clearness his mental fa-
culties.
He frequently said, "I am not so
near my end as you think; I have
too much strength left." Br Reichel,
who visited him early this morning,
spoke to him with reference to his
approaching dissolution, asking him
whether he felt easy.
He replied, "I wish to feel more assu-
rance of forgiveness, but if I had
that given me, I am afraid I should
feel too impatient to go."
About mid-day, alarming symptoms of
stupor, showed themselves, and it was thought
advisable to bless him for his departure.
When he was acquainted with the resolution,
he roused himself, as it were from a leth-
argy, saying, "Do you think the time is
so near?" Upon being told by Br Reichel
that that was the opinion. "Well," he said,
"let it be so." He joined, as well as he


could, in the verses, and when the blessing
was pronounced, repeated it, as well as his
strength would permit. The mental strug
gle which he went thro' in the afternoon
of this day, can only be understood by
those who witnessed it. He cried aloud
with earnestness for mercy, his prayers
for for giveness were frequent & affecting.
In his anxiety, he would frequently
turn to his mother & Sister, asking them
if he was pardoned, whether he was ear-
nest enough in his cries, at the same
time entreating them not to buoy him
up with false hopes. This painful state
lasted for about an hour, when he appear-
ed to have obtained comfort. He lay very
quiet. A short time before his end, he
exclaimed, "What a sweet dream I have
had!" After this he spoke but little, his
breathing becoming very difficult. About
1/4 after 10 o'clock, his breath stopped, and,
without a struggle, he passed into the
arms of that Saviour, whose love he
could not too often dwell upon.


