The Md. Sr. Elisab. Rainer of Dudleyhill
 departed Dec. 20. 1838, aged 76 years
Her parents being members of our Church
she was from early childhood accustomed to at
tend the public and private meetings in our Chapel.
What she there heard of the love of our Saviour
soon made a good impression on her heart, and
this was strengthened by the instructions she re
ceived at the Dayschool, and the Scriptural texts
and the hymns she committed to memory.
The work of Grace, begun in childhood, progres
sed as she advanced in years. She was received into
the congn and admitted to the H.C. and for a time
walk worthily of her heavenly calling, prizing
her connexion with our Church and faithfully
improving her privileges as a member of the same.
From her frequent declarations it is evident, that 
she enjoyed much of that spiritual happiness,
which those only can rightly understand, who by
watchfulness and prayer keep themselves
from the world seek for and obtain grace to escape
the corruption there is in the world thro' sin,
living the life of faith in the Son of God.


After her marriage her connexion with the
congn was for number of years entirely broken off.
In proportion as their temporal affairs prosperd
her desire after spiritual blessings declined, and
the love of the world gained the accentancy in her
heart. In mercy to her soul the Lord caused the
source of her enjoyments to be dried up. Compara
tive affluence was succeeded by abject poverty
to which was added much bodily suffering. In this
These distressing circumstances, like the poverty of
the Prodidal Son, brought her to herself. She keenly
felt the loss she had sustained by straying from the
Good Shepherd and his fold. When speaking of this 
period, she was wont to describe the state of her mind
in language like the following:
"When recollecting the many spiritual enjoyments
of which I had partaken while within the fold of the
Good shepherd, my heart was ready to break and my
soul refused to be comforted. Indeed I should have
sunk into absolute dispondency had it not been that 
the love of the Saviour to sinners, of which I had heard
so much in early life, and of which He had given me many a
sweet taste, still had a place in my memory and a hold
tho' every light one, of on my affection. My bodily suffer
rings and poverty I disregarded, and could even thank
the Lord for them as proofs of his love to my soul,


being convinced that it required severe means to
subdue the pride and hardness of my heart, and make me
willing to lie as a poor peaitent at the foot of his cross.
He did not disappoint my hope; but spoke peace to my
troubled conscience."
At her earnest request she was in 1832 readmitted
to her former privileges in the congn. She was then already
in that state of bodily decrepitude, owing to severe rheu
matic afflictions in her limbs, that she could hardly move
from her chair. Her readmision therefore took place
in her own dwelling. Being assured of the readiness of
the congn to receive her, and of their sincere sympathy
in her distressing circumstances; she broke out gave
full vent to her feelings of gratitude for the favor con
ferred on her; and, while tears of penitence and joy
rolled down her cheeks, made an humble confession
of her deviations, and of the inward joy she felt at the
mercy shown to her by our Saviour. Those who were
present on this occasion will not easily forget the
solemn scene. The presence and peace of our Saviour,
while commerating his death in his own ordinance, were
felt in so sensible a manner, that her hesuible dwelling,
one of the worst was indeed a Bethal, and the gate
to heaven, something of the delights of heaven, when there
injoy in the presence of God over one sinner that repents tho
gladdened the spirits of the little company. All


During the remaining six years of her life her
bodily sufferings increased more and more, till at last
she was totally unable to help herself. In the midst of all
her pains and extreme poverty, she could rejoice in God,
her Saviour, looking forward in faith, and hope to the
termination of all earthly misery. You generally
found her sitting in the corner, with her Bible and 
Hymn book lying open on the table, and not unfre
quently on approaching her cottage was she heard
singing there her favorite Hymns, Nothing afforded her greater
pleasure than holding converse with those who
loved the Lord, and could enter into her feelings.
The occasional administration of the Lords
supper to her were reasons of refreshing from
the presence of the Lord, and could not fail to impress
those present with the conviction, that the Good
Shepherd was carrying his once straying sheep
in his arms.
In The evening before her departure observing 
a great change in her, her husband said, he thought
she was dying, and asked her, if she knew it, and 
whither she was going. She replied, "My Saviour
is with me, and I am going to Him."


