Memoir
of Br C. F. Ramftler's Minister of
the Brethrens' Congn in Bristol.
who departed this life Octr 26th 1832.
Aged 52 1/2 years. Written by himself
If Parentage and descent under
any circumstances be cause for glorying
I think I have where of to glory. Both
my Grandparents on the Parental side
left home and kindred and property &
whatever was dear to them in the world
for conscience sake, my Grandfather
being a Moravian Emigrant and
my Grandmother Marchioness de
Monton being one of the French Refugees.
Of myself I will not glory, cannot
glory, save that by the Cross of Christ
the world has been crucified to me, and 
I unto the world, that amidst my


manifold infirmities his power has rest-
ed upon me, and that my numberless Sins
have I believe been blotted out with his
precious Blood.
My Father was
born at Herrnhut July 6th 1740, and at the
time of my birth was accountant for the
Bailiwick of Barby in Saxony, which the
Brethrens unity then held upon a long lease.
There I first saw the light of this World
March 12th 1780, and shall ever be thankful
to my God and Redeemer, that born and
educated in the Bosom of the Brethrens
Church, I obtained a Birthright to this
household of God, and have been pre-
served from selling this Birthright.
My preservation from gross Sin,
and my early impressions of Divine
Grace, are to be solely ascribed under
Divine blessing to a careful education
which preserved me the from temptations
and checked my evil propensities.
My dear Mother often told me that dur-
ing her pregnancy with me she had fer-
vently prayed that I might rather not
live than not become an heir of heaven
and that I might become a Preacher


righteousness preferably among the Hea-
then. My affectionate Father treated
me with a degree of severity and I stood
in awe of him, while My Mother found it
the most effectual Method of controlling me
to remind the that by evil doing, I offended
that Saviour whose love to me had prompt-
ed him to lay down his life for me. By
my lively and active disposition I fell into
many errors, and gave frequent uneasei-
ness to my Parents. In my 6th Year I
remember to have had the first indelible
impression of a Spiritual Nature, at the
meeting on Good Friday in which the Lord's
Death is commemorated. When the Words
were read: "And he bowed the head, and gave
up the Ghost," and the Congregation fell
on their knees in prayer, or power pervad-
ed my Mind which I did not then under-
stand, but which times without number,
has since then been brought to my reco-
lection, as a drawing of grace, and a div
call to give my heart to him who died for
my Sins.


After having acquired the rudiments,
of learning in the Day School at Barby
I was by my Parents and at my own desire
removed to the Boarding School at Klein-
welke in my 7th year. Though separated
thus early from home at the distance of
about 150 English miles, I was delighted 
with the idea of the change, the number
of companions, & the opportunity of improve-
ment. The mode of living was poor, nor
was the Method of instruction best calcu-
lated to improve the mind. After a while
I lost my vivorcity, and became homesick.
A dangerous illness seized me, when I
had been little more than a year at Klein- 
welke: an abscess in the lungs reduced
me to a skeleton, deprived me of the power
of speech and brought me to the very
brink of the grave. My Father upon
receiving the information hastened to
see me, and resolved in reliance upon
God, to take me home in that enfeebled state.
Altho' told by my Medical attendants, that


probably I should be a Corpse, before I
could reach home and that it ever I should
recover, My speech would never be restored
and consequently the idea of Making a
preacher of me must be entirely given up
The very thought of returning home cheered
me, and a commodiens carraige with
a bed and a careful nurse being provided
the Journey was accomplished in 5 days
in delightful weather, my arrival at home
taking place Sep 26th 1787. On the third day
of the Journey we passed a very uneven
and stony road the violent shaking of
which broke the abscess, and led to a co-
pious discharge of Matter, with a dis-
tresssing Cough, which made my Father
momentarily apprehend My death. While
it proved thro' divine Mercy, that this very
circumstance laid the foundation to my
cure which was afterwards gradually pro-
moted by the use of Iceland moss and other 
remedies under the faithful care of Dr
Lieberkhn. This I regard as the first


striking interposition of Providence in the
renewed gift
of life and in the redoubled
obligation thereby imposed upon me to
devote that life to him, to whose service
I had been devoted at Baptism, and ded-
cated by many parental prayers.
After my recovery I again attended
the Day School, where the opportunities
for making progress in learning were
scanty untill in My 12th year I received
private lessons by a Candidate for the
Lutheran ministry preparatory to my
entrance into the Pedagogium of the Brns
Unity then established at Barby. Next
to the pleasures of Gardening and hus-
bandry, in which during my childhood
I was delighted to share in the fertile soil
of my native place. My mind was intent
upon the acquirement of knowledge, and
in that view readily sacrificed the former
delights. Altho I cannot say that my mind
was then truly Spiritualized, yet my de-
sire to devote my life to the Ministry in


the Brns Unity was then almost as strong
and distinct as at any Subsequent period,
nor am I aware of any secular Motive,
save the opportunity of study, wherein I
found my element. My religious views were
simple, and centered in the love of Christ &
the obligation of loving him in return. The
experience of the efficacy of this theme fa-
miliarily and affectionately presented to the 
youthful mind, tho' not always productive
at the time of the desired benefit, has in
later Years made it my pleasing duty, to
direct Children in the course of My Minis-
terial labours, to that Saviour, whose his-
tory in it important bearings they can
both understand and feel, while dry ar-
gument and doctrinal statement leave
their hearts cold and dead.
April 1st 1792 I entered the Pedagogium
as a Pupil, and during the 5 1/2 Years of
My residence in it visited My Parents
House but once in the week, for two hours
on Sunday, altho' at the distance of but


a few hundred Yards. Under the excel-
lent tuition of my Preceptors I now made
rapid progress, and took much pleasure
in my studies, altho' the very close con-
finement occasionally produced lowness
of spirits. In this period while sin
strengthened with my youth, the Saviour's love
overcame its dominion, and while my 
conversion to God was gradual and it is
impossible for me to point out the date
of its commencement, I could trace that
by the Grace of God I became what by nature
I neither was nor desired to be. The private
and confidential advice of the Laborer of
the Acadimicians in Barby will ever
be held in grateful remembrance by me.
June 17th 1792 I was received into the Brns
Congn and on Maundy Thursday in the 
following year partook the first time of
the H Communion; nor did I ever regret
having this early been admitted to this feast
which proved a powerful check to my Sinful
nature, and profitable Season for self


examination whenever it returned.
My Classical studies having been
compleated I was in Octr 1797 transferred
with 13 companions to the Theolgical Se-
minany at Niesky. The Lectures delivered
in this institution were profitable to me,
I took notes of their contents, and devoted My-
self with a degree of assiduity to the study
of Divinity. But the simplicity of my mind
received a shock, mental poison I swal-
lowed mixed with mental food, vain conceit
and self dependance seized me, Sceptical
sentiments laid hold of me and I even con-
templated the abandonment of the proposed
career of my life, in which I was prevented
by my judicious Uncle, whom I visited
several times in Lower Lusatia. Amidst
the waywardness of my Mind and the awak-
ening passions of my Sinful heart, in which
My Superiors treated me with more harshness
than wisdom, the desire of preaching the
Gospel returned to my mind, and an acquaint-
ance which I formed with a neighbouring


Lutheran Clergyman in the Village of
Arndorf led to an invitation from him
that I would make a trial of preaching
in his Church, which I did when barely
17 years of age. As this was done without the
previous permission of the Inspector of the
Seminary, I received a sharp rebuke, but
afterwards with the Sanction of the U.E.C.
preached twice again in Churches before
I quitted the Seminary.
In Feby 1800, I returned to Barby.
the Journey being performed in very se-
vere weather, and in my passage thro'
Leipsic I spent some time at the house
of a friend awaiting myself of the oppor-
tunity of attending various Lectures at
that University. Now I spent a few
Months very agreeably at the house of
my Parents, and occupied myself in
part with copying Congn Accts. In July
of the same year I received a call to be
Schoolmaster at Neusalz in Silesia,
which was my first station of Service


and well calculated to try and humble
me. The Children of the Congn committed
to my care, had been much neglected by
my predecessor, inexperience induced
me to adopt severe measures, and I was
employed in teaching the Alphabet and
first rudiments of learning. Yet I en-
joyed thro' mercy the love and confidence
of the Parents, was supported by Br 
Nitschky the Minister of the Congn and
saw that My labour was not in vain
in the Lord. I lodged in the Sle Brns House
My maintenance was very Scanty and
I was obliged to copy accounts to supply my
need. Here I had also pretty frequent op-
portunites of assisting the Minister in
the public proclamation of the Gospel
wherein I look much pleasure. A strik-
ing preservation of my life during my
residence at Neusalz strengthened my
conviction that my God had still work
for me to do in this World, and moved me
to consecrate myself anew to my Preserver


and Redeemer. May 19th 1801 I went by
the dedication and in the company of a 
friend to the River Oder at the
distance of about 2 miles from  the town.
In high spirits did my companion pro-
ceed and encourage me to follow him.
But suddenly he sunk in an unexpect-
edly deep place of the river, and rose no
more. I stepped after him with a view to
rescue him, attempting to seize his arm
the water rose above my head, and I lost
all power of voluntary motion, consider-
ing my life as lost. By an inexplica-
ble Providence, however I was raised &
found myself standing again on firm
Ground, thankful for my deliverance
but agonized on account of the loss of my
friend. Hastily and in an almost dis-
tracted state of mind I procured assis-
tance, removed the drowned body, and
adopted all practicable means to re-
susitate it but in vain. Thus one
was taken and the other left.


At the conclusion of the Synod in 1801
I received a call to be a Teacher in the Aca-
demy for Young Noblemen at Uhyst. Self-
denying as my station at Neusalz had
been I left it with considerable regret, be-
cause I enjoyed the love and friendship of
Many, and had not been left destitute of
the blessing of my God. In Uhyst from the
Superior mode of instruction, as well as
the greater convenience in the mode I
life, My abode was pleasant, in addition
to our domestic circle I enjoyed confiden-
tial intercourse with the Clergyman of
the Parish, at whose house I spent many
evenings after the labour of the day for
profitable relaxation. Both at the Aca-
demy and Church I had frequent oppor-
tunities of testifying of the Grace of God
in Christ Jesus. Dreary as the Country
about Uhyst is, the village standing in
the midst of extensive fir forests, and con-
fined as my Society there was, the removal
of the Academy to Great Hennersdorf near


Hernhut after I had been only half a year
there proved painful to me. In Hennersdorf
also I resided only half a year being in 
the spring of 1803 called to England, to oc-
cupy the place of first Teacher in the
newly founded Boarding School at Fair-
field near Manchester.
This call which constituted a new
Epoch in my life, and directed my whole
official career, and moreover was very
much contrary to my inclination, and
plans, and prospects, I could not accept,
until it had been sanctioned by lot.
Paying a farewell visit to my Parents, I 
took a painful leave of them, of many dear
friends, and of my Native land. At Ham-
burgh I embarked for Hull, and by contrary
winds was detained three weeks at Cuxhaven
as a lonely Passenger in the ships cabin.
when at length having reached the open Sea
an English Privateer seized us, under
the mistaken Idea that the French had made
themselves Masters of Hamburgh.


The Privateer belonging to Colchester, we were
we were carried to the Harbour of Wivenhoe
4 miles from that town. Thus my arrival
in England seemed very inauspicious;
coming to a place to which I had no re-
commendation, Where I could not be intro-
duced to a Single individual. My situation
was peculiarly irksome. The English
language I had indeed learned to read, but
hearing it for the first time in common con-
versation I found it very difficult to un-
derstand it, nor could I readily express
myself in it. How to proceed, I knew not
and therefore took my quarters at the Rose
and Crown Inn Wivenhoe, untill I might
be favored with an answer from Br. Wollin
in London to whom I wrote. Sunk into mourn-
ful meditations, I wandered in the fertile
fields, admiring the beauty of the land-
scape, but feeling myself cut off from
all human endearments. Nothing cou'd
have cheered My mind, but the conviction
that here I was in obedience to a divine


call, and that he who called me would not 
have nor forsake me. In all my future
situations and difficulties, it has been my
great support and consolation, that not by
my own choice nor even by mere human 
appointment but according to the mode of
appointing to office in our Church, I occupied
the places, which I old occupy, and was en-
gaged in the employments in which I was
engaged from time to time. The solitude
also in which I now felt myself, directed
my mind to the more frequent Communion
with my Divine Friend and Saviour.
By the arrival of Br Wollin I was
relieved and with him proceeded to London
from whence after a few days, I went to
Fairfield the place of my destination.
It was consoling after so long an interval
to be again in a Brns Congn. which on fu-
ture occasions after Journies, I have often
experienced as a peculiar refreshment
amidst the various defects of our Congns
there is a flowing together of Soul, between


their members, and a facility of becoming
acquainted and even intimate with one
another as belonging to one family, which
I have no where met with out of our Com-
munity. I reached Fairfield July 15th 1803.
and was cordially received by Br Willet
the Domestic Manager, and Br J. Hyland &
T. Bird the Assistant Teachers of the newly
established Boarding School. My difficul-
ties under God were greatly eased by the
friendship of Br. W. Foster the Congn
Helper there, also by Br Clemens the
Minister. The situation was sufficiently
trying as may easily be conceived when
it is considered that with my imperfect
acquaintance with the language and man-
ners of the Country, it devolved principally
on me to regulate the School, and to form
as well as execute the needful plans for
it future success. Moreover it was incum-
bent upon me immediately and from thence
for two years to live alone with 10 Boys or 12
as the School rapidly increased.


Indeed the success with which the Lord
blessed us was for beyond expectation, so
that in a Year's time it became necessary
to add a story to the house, which then was
immediately filled with between 50 & 60 Board-
ers and continued to contain that number
besides Day-Scholars, while I was em-
ployed in it. It is not in the spirit of vain
glorifying when I say that my whole strength
was assiduously devoted to my Official
Duty, and that my deal in endeavouring
to aid the improvement of my Scholars
was fervent and sincere. My mistakes were
numerous, and my hasty and passionate
temper in particular, led me into many
errors in Word and action, not in this
situation only but in future employments
also. It is my shame that nature was
not more decidedly and entirely mortified
by Grace, and that the meek and patient
mind of Christ was not reflected on me, as
it might have been had I with closer Com-
munion with him by faith and in prayer.


combined more Watchfulness & Circumspection.
The well meant but often ill directed fervor
with which I was apt to act at the impulse
of the moment and the unpremeditated man-
ner with which on those occasions I was ac-
customed to express my Sentiments and feelings
not unfrequently harsh, gave offence and
wounded the feelings of those whom I affec-
tionately loved, and whose welfare it was
my Sincere desire to promote. To deal
plainly and uprightly was my design
but in so doing I sometimes neglected a
kind and courteous deportment. That
life, injury was occasioned thereby than
might have been expected, is to be attri-
buted to the everlasting Mercy of my
Saviour, whereby the friendship of most
with whom I was connected was preserv-
ed to me, and their apology for my hasty
manner was readily made, in the con-
viction of my good intention. The chas-
tening of my own mind by the Spirit of
God was often painful and severe after


my warm temper had misled me to an 
inconsiderate mode of proceeding.
After three months residence in Eng-
land I begun to address discourses to the Chil-
dren and on the Sunday before Christmas,
preached my first Sermon in the English
language at Duckenfield. On Christmas day
I was favored to deliver my first public tes-
timony at Fairfield. The Lord supported &
granted me acceptance. I accustomed my
self to take great pains in waiting and
committing to memory the discourses wch
from that time I was frequently called to
deliver, and altho' that degree of prepara-
tion was not continued when I obtained
more practice and fluency, yet I never re-
gretted having submitted to that labor, nor
ever without necessity addressed a Congn
until having premeditated the subject of
the address being persuaded that diligent
effort in every, and more especially in Pas
toral and ministerial employment, is a
ered duty, and that the unction of the 


Holy Spirit is not only given in answer
to prayer at the time when a discourse
is delivered, but also in the Study or Clo-
set where it is prepared.
In June 1805 I received the painful
intelligence of the decease of my dear
Mother, which affected me more than Words
can express. About the same time I re-
ceived the appointment to be Assistant
of the Sle Brns Labourer, still retaining
My former Situation in the School. Sub-
sequently the office of Co. Labourer with
Br Arm, on account of the infirmities of
the latter, was committed to me and I ob-
tained a private residence in the Sle Brns
house, altho' spending the greater part of
the day in the School. In the beginning
of the Year 1809 My strength seemed ex-
hausted by continual exertion. My health
appeared to decline, and some relaxation
was thought the necessary. A strong desire
which I had once more to visit my aged
Father and my native Country induced


me
the resolution to set out for Germany
notwithstanding the war which was then
carried on and the rigid exclusion of Eng-
land from all communication with the
European Continent by the System of Na-
polien. In reliance upon divine protection
I proceeded in May by way of London
and Harwich to the Island of Heligoland
near the mouth of the Elbe, which was then
the Depot of English Merchandize. From
thence I was with some other passengers
conveyed about 60 miles across the Ocean
to a lonely part of the Westphalian coast
in a small boat in which during a
whole night we were exposed to the most
imminent danger. When landing on
the next evening and delivered into the
hands of people who made exorbinant
gains by the necessities of travellers
whom they might deliver to the French
for Military execution, I was by then
forwarded in an open vehicle on bye-
roads and thro' forests during a beau-


tiful moonlight night, in constant dread
of being seized. The Lord however was my
protector and after varions adventures I
arrived safely in the City of Bremen
where Alderman Tideman whose Sons
I had educated at Hennersdorf give me
a kind and hospitable reception. Among
the Brns Society in this city I spent a
few edifying days, holding some meetings
with them. By way of Brunswick, Where
I enjoyed much friendship at Br Stobwasser's
house, I proceeded to Gnadau where my
dear Father met me with whom I then
walked to Barby.
Scarcely had I spent or week under
the Parental roof during which I became
acquainted with my Stepmother also
when on Sunday after I had preached in
Hall
the Brns Chapel intimation was given
that the Mayor of the Town, by order of
the neighbouring Prefect intended to ar-
me as as an English Spy. Immedi-
ately therefore I was obliged to decamp


across the river Elbe; and now proceed-
ed to Hernhut and other places in Lusatia
to visit the members of the U.E.C.
whose Sessions I attended for an hour
and to enjoy intercourse with many friends.
On my return I spent some days with 
me Father in secret seeing also my 
only Brother and Sister and then went again
by way of Bremen and Varel, to embark
for Heligoland which was done during
the night at a lonely part of the coast.
In Heligoland I waited 2 days in a crowd-
ed and uncomfortable lodging for the
sailing of the English Packet which took
me to Harwich after a three days Sail;
during the night my only couch was
the hard floor of the Cabin, with my
Portmanteau for a pillow. The hardships
of this journey did not injure but ma-
terially invigorate my health, so that
after my return to Fairfield in the Month
of Sept, I was again ready to resume my
active and laborious duty. My


scholastic employment however were on
the point of terminating, for I soon recd
a call to be Minister and Labourer of
the Congn at Bedford. Before entering on
that office my Marriage become neces-
sary, and with respect to the choice of
or partner for life, I now happily enabled
to leave myself implicitly to the direction
of my divine Lord. After much conside-
ration on my part and that of my eccle-
siastical superiors, the Sle Sr Elizth Graves
of Bristol was fixed upon, and after my
arrival in that city was accepted by me
the proposal being made to her, she ac-
cepted it as coming from the hands of 
the Lord. In Bristol I enjoyed so much
friendship and kindness, that the place
ever since has been peculiarly dear to
me. From thence I also paid a visit to
my venerable friend and Br Clemens
in Bath, and in both places preached
several times with freedom.
Decr 14th 1809 our Marriage took


place, being performed at St. James Church
by the Revd. T.T. Biddulph. My wife
had the affliction on the very day of
her marriage to be informed of the depar-
ture of her Father, whose funeral I
attended before we left Bristol. In her
I had precisely such a Partner as was
good for me, altho' her difficulty of
hearing impeded conversation, and
was on many accounts afflictive to
her, My manner towards her altho'
I always esteemed her was not as
kind and affectionate as she deserved.
Spirituality and humility of mind,
prudence and circumspection of
conduct, and an affectionate faithful-
ness of disposition together with domes-
tich habits and love of retirement were
the distinguishing features of he
character. She was given me in mer-
cy put up with my failings and at-
tended with watchful assiduity to my 
wants. In office also she was useful


and by conversations with the Srs in those
Congns, I have served was a blessed help-mate
to me. Another mercy of the Lord was the
gift of a faithful servant whom we obtained
immediately upon our arrival at Bedford
and who, while I write this, has continued
for 21 Years with us, acquitting herself
with exemplary faithfulness, and Making
our interest and pleasure her own. But
while I write she as well as I is with
drawn from activity. Domestic affliction
such as we had not hitherto experienced,
is sent, and doubtless sent in mercy &
compassion lest we be condemned with the
World.
But to return to My Narrative:
soon after our Marriage we proceeded from
Bristol to Fairfield, when at the house of
Br & Sr Foster we experienced much kind-
ness. On Christmas Eve an expectation
being entertained that I was to preach a
farewell Sermon the concourse in the
Chapel was such that a Second Service


after the first became necessary to acco-
modate the multitude. Jany 7th 1810 Br
T. Moore ordained me a Deacon of the
Brns Church, my wife being at the same
time accepted an Acoluth. The 11th of the
same month we arrived at Bedford &
were on the 14th when the Anniversary
of that Congn was celebrated introduced
by my predecessor Br S. Church as its
future Labourers. Goodness and mercy
appointed me to this post at which I
laboured 3 Years with delight, and which
with the late Br J. Hartley I may call
my halcyon station. With zeal I entered
upon my Office and with forbearance &
affection was I received, and treated by
the Congn. Uniform peace and brother-
by union distinguished the course of this
dear flock and few occurences of a dis-
tressing nature marred My happiness.
In addition to My Ministerial duties
which were laborious but pleasing to me
I had the inspection of the Girls Boarding


school, which added to my comfort, and at
which I was occupied 3 hours daily in the work
of instruction. It was likewise an addition to
my opportunities of serving My Saviour to
preach regularly in several neighbouring
villages. In how far My activity was prompt-
ed by a single view to the Glory of God, and the
Salvation of Sinners, I do not venture to pro-
nounce; difficult as I find it positively to
ascertain my own motives for acting, I ap-
prehand that a constitutinal and vestless
disposition, finding personal gratification
in being constantly employed, had a share
in it. The Lord however blessed my endeavour
and covered My Sins, which were greater
and more numerous than I can describe
My reproofs of others were often severe, and
not couched at all times in the language
of compassion, and alas! how apt are we
to forget our own blemishes in attempt-
ing to rectify those of others.
To my great Surprise I received to-
wards the end of the year 1812 a call to be


Congn helper and Minister of Fulneck
and the neighbouring Country Congns, and
with my wife to be Labourer of the Marrd
Choir there. It was a hard stroke, and while
feeling the pangs of sepearation from a
most beloved flock, I foresaw the difficul-
ties of the extensive sphere of labour wch
awaited me, and the numerous perplexi-
ties connected with my new appointment.
However having the conviction that the Sum-
mons came from the Lord, obedience was
my only and immediate choice. The
farewell at Bedford was mutually
affecting and painful. Feby 3d 1813
we arrived at Fulneck, and after I had
been by Br. T. Moore ordained a Presby-
ter of the Brns Church, I entered upon my
labours with alacraty. The Presidency
of the E.C., and the general oversight of
the Brns Congns. in Yorkshire added to
my responsibilities, and I required more
& circumspection
humility, than I possessed. A place Congn
has peculiar advantages and excellencies


of the inhabitants have truly Spiritual
minds, otherwise it is apt to afford oppor-
tunities for scandal and bickering.
Among the widely scattered Brn & Srs
in the County, I found much scope for
exertion, and perceived that My labours
were not in vain in the Lord. The atten-
dance at the public services at Fulneck
was generally numerous, and instances
of awakened and converted sinners were
not wanting whom I hope to meet in Para-
dise as my joy and crown of rejoicing.
While on the other hand many pleasing
hopes of my born babes in Christ were
disappointed, and many tender plants
seemed to be nipped in the bud by the
blasts of the World, I had cause for both
weeping and rejoicing.
A year after my arrival at Fulneck
I experienced another remarkable pre-
servation of my life. I had occasion to
visit an aged Sister 5 miles from home
to administer the Communion to her, On


my return the Horse on which I rode threw
me on hard frozen and stony ground, I es-
caped with my temples bleeding and my
shoulder injured, so as to oblige me to car-
ry my arm some time in a sling, with-
out receiving any permanent hurt, & 
providentially our Medical Man rode
past at the very moment and lent me
has immediate assistance. Another call
was this for gratitude, and a new sur-
render of my all to my Saviour's Service.
In the Year 1818 I was invited by the
U.E.C. to attend the Synod of the Brns Unity
and proceeded to Hernhut accompanied
by my wife & infant daughter Elizabeth
Graves, who had been born to us Oct. 2d 1815.
This dear and only child was an object
of My tenderest solicitude. I baptized her
the Sunday succeeding her birth into the
death of Jesus with indescribable feelings,
the responsibility of training an immortal
soul with parental fidelity for the Kingdom
of heaven lay with all its weight upon my


mind, but many are the mistakes, omissions 
and neglects of which I stand convicted before
my God in this sacred duty. Indeed my Offi-
cial duties left me little leasure to devote to
the personal instruction of my own child.
In her unfolding faculties I had, combined
with much gratification also a practi-
cal exemplification of the depravity of hu-
man nature from earliest youth. The
affectionate disposition and facility in ac-
quiring knowledge, which we discerned in
our dear daughter gave as much pleasure
and compensated for the pains which the
correction of her evil temper gave us. That
the grace of Christ our Saviour might migh-
tily lay hold of her, and direct her whole heart
and Soul into the path of peace and holiness
continues to be my hearty prayer.
On the journey to and from Hernhut
I had a last opportunity of visiting my
faithful and aged Father, who soon after fell
asleep in Jesus. At the Synod, besides at-
tending in the capacity of Deputy for all


the Yorkshire Congns I acted as Secretary
and also superintended the copying of the
Synodal results. In that occasion I became
more intimately acquainted with, and
more firmly attached to the principles
of the Brns Unity, being also more clearly
convinced that she carries on the course of
God, and has a worth far beyond what her
small numbers and unobtrusive habits
lead men generally to conceive. In Sept the
same year I returned to my former Situ-
ation in Fulneck. Here I also availed my-
self of many opportunities of co-operating
with Children of God in other Denominations,
considering it to be a peculiar calling of
our Church, to help in uniting the scat-
tered children of God. In Bedford already
it was a pleasing duty to me, in concert
with the Revd Messrs Legh Richmond and
Saml Hilyard to aid in the establishment
of Bible Associations in every part of the
County, and now I preached and assisted at
Public religious meetings in different


parts of Yorkshire as far as appeared to me
consistant with My more immediate charge.
My design was to combine with conscien-
tious Attachment to our division, of the fold
of Jesus, a charitable union with all other
children of God, and without compromise
of principle to aid in proving that one is
our Master even Christ, and that we all
are Brethren.
Various sorrowful occurrances during
the latter part of my residence in Fulneck
materially diminished My comforts and
impacted My usefulness, I neither can
nor will exculpate myself (The maxim
"avoid all appearance of evil" I had not
by any means learned and reduced to
practice,) Nor can the Searcher of hearts
pronounce me guiltless. My own consci-
ence charges me with unfaithfulness in
secret and private duties; and while I was
always active in whatever was commit-
ted to me, My activity was not always
directed by the genuine spirit of humility


meekness and love. (In the beginning of
1824 a visitation from the U.E.C being held
at Fulneck, the want of a judicious & 
impartial investigation of affairs made
me long for my release from the arduous
and difficult station, which I held for
nearly 12 Years, more especially as I could
no longer act in concert with my near
est fellow Labourer.)
During the Provincial Conference
which in July of the Year just mentioned
was held at Fairfield, a call arrived
from the U.E.C. for me, proposing to
My consideration the office of Minister.
and Congn Labourer at  Bristol. This
for once was an appointment which
coincided with my wishes, and which
I should have felt inclined to have chosen for my-
self. Deeply affecting was my farewell
of Yorkshire, where I had both laboured
and suffered for nearly 12 years during the most active
period of my life, a great number
precious Souls to whom the Lord and


His spirit blessed my feeble labours, will
he hold in remembrance by me while I
live, and to their continued prayers on my
behalf I attribute the enjoyment of man--
fold benefits. "During 7 Years," said the Head
of a family to me, "Your Name has not for
a single day been omitted in our prayers."
My Valedictory Sermon was preached
at Fulneck on Sept 12th 1824 to a very large
concourse of people, and on the same day
I introduced Br J. Holmes as my Succes-
sor.
Septr 16th I arrived with My dear
Wife and Daughter at Bristol, Br & Sr
Okely our predecessors, having previously
left that place for Dublin. Wide as the
field for active labour was in this new
station, I felt it as repose after toil, the
mental trials connected with it being
much smaller than those in My former
office. The previous acquaintance
which at several former visits I had
made with many members of the


Congn at Bristol, greatly facilitated my
speedy familiarity with my incumben-
cies, and with the souls committed to my
care. I do not know that I have enjoyed
life during any proceeding period more
than during my residence at Bristol,
which while I write has continued for
6 1/2 years. The Lord dealt very mercifully
with me, gave me favor in the hearts of
many not only of our own communion
but of Servants and Children of God in
various Churches, whose friendship
was valuable and profitable to me.
The Congn increased considerably and
many truly devoted souls were added
to it. My Saviour owned and blessed me
beyond My utmost expectations.
In 1825 I attended the second time at
a Synod of our Church, being deputed
by Bristol and several other Congns.
My stay at Hernhut was agreeable &
busy, close confinement not only durg
the Synodal sessions but during the


remaining hours of the day, when much
writing and translating devolved upon me
made the long to return to my less sedentary
employment at home, where after a very
rapid journey of only 10 days from Hern-
hut arrived again Augst 28th (Br William
Mallalieu was my pleasant companion
in going, and Br Blumer that Janr in
returning.)
In addition to the ordinary labours
of My Ministry, I was in various ways
occupied with endeavours to promote our
missionary cause both in and out of Bristol.
I being perhaps part of the accomplish-
ment of my Mothers prayer, that I took
peculiar pleasure in advocating the
extention of our Saviours Kingdom among
the heathen, and had many doors for so
doing opened to me by Providence. In
1829 I undertook I extensive journies by
commission from the London Association
in aid of the Brns Missions, and was both
delighted and edified by finding open doors


and open hearts, and unfeigned cordiallity
and cooperation in all places and among
all communities and their Ministers whom
I visited. The latter part of these 2 journies
was however rendered peculiarly pain-
ful and distressing to me by the intelli-
gence which I received at the close of a
day of arduous duty, that My dear child
had been seized with a dangerous illness
at Fulneck, where for 3 years she had
been seperated from us at School, and
that her Mother during my absence had
gone to see and nurse her, the accounts
being very alarming none probably can
conceive what I felt, except a parent of
on only child, just on the point finishg
her education, and of whom pleasing ex-
pectations of fruit from the seed carefully
sown and entertained, such a child I ap-
prehended might have been called into
eternity at a distance of 400 miles from
me, the anxious suspense in which I
was held for several days was the more


painful as my appointed duty required that
in this state of mind I should travel and preach
going strangers day by day.
In my return home the intelligence
received was still more alarming, and
I was constrained with the utmost speed
to proceed to Fulneck where thro' mercy
I found the child somewhat better under
her Mothers care, and the faithful atten-
dance on the part of the School. During
this trial I found it difficult to pray
with that Submission, which I had often
urged upon others, I did pray fervently
for the child, and consider her gradual
recovery as an express answer to prayer.
Next to the consoling effect of communion
with My Lord, and the powerful relief
obtained by speaking to him as a friend,
the sympathy of my Brn & Srs was truly
soothing to me. I had received many good
things at the hand of the Lord, it was time
that I should submissively receive evil
or rather what at the time appears to


be evil, being painful to flesh and blood. 
Active duties I had long exercised, passive
duties I found it much more difficult to
bear. Trials were needed to teach me
patience and confidence, to preserve me
from presumption and undue earthly
attachments, to fit me for bearing with
the infirmities and sharing in the suf-
ferings of others, in fire, to fit me both
for my Ministry and for entrance in
to the everlasting Kingdom of Christ.
In Octr 1829 our child was so far restored
as to come home with her Mother, and
since then has continued with us be-
ing cheifly instructed by me.
Thus for our late Br
wrote in the beginning of the Year 1831.
It is to be regretted that he did not bring
his Memoir down to a later period, but
this he was probably prevented from doing
by the increased deficiency in his sight.
The following information has been princi-
pally furnished by his afflicted Widow:


My late dear Husband had enjoyed
an uninterupted state of good health untill the
month of May 1830 when having set out
on horseback to visit a member of the Congn
who resided at a distance of some miles
he was overtaken by heavy rain and
not having an opportunity of procuring
a change of clothes thus laid the foundation
a dangerous disease. This continued
for some months gradually to gain ground
though without causing any intermission
in his labours, until the Autumn of that
year when a very laborious Missionary
Tour in which the engaged added so alarm-
ingly to its progress as to make it needful
for him to yeild to the advice of his medi-
cal attendants, and abstain for the pre-
sent from engaging in his ministerial
functions.
This was to him a severe strike; for
labour was his enjoyment, and his rest
was in activity. The Separation was felt
by his flock not less than by himself,


And it was one great source of consolation
to his mind, to know that for his works' sake,
he had so large an interest in their love &
in their prayers
He thus Writes in his Diary Jany 26th 1831
"The Various Means and Medical re
medies hitherto used for the recovery of
My impoured health, having proved in
effectual, My faithful and able attendants
Dr Pritchard and Br Saml Millard di
rected me to proceed to Bath, partly with
a view to use warm bathing, but chief
by for the purpose of repose and retire
ment. Having therefore yesterday at the
celebration of the 76th Anniversary of
the Bristol Congn, which is so dear to
me, and has lauded me with marks of
kindness, taken a temporary leave of
the same, and having committed the
Ministrations in the Chapel to the
Brn Seifferth & T. West, in expectation
of Br Jonn Smith of Ockbrook soon arriv
ing for the present supply of My Office;


being also assured of the fervent prayers
of many in my behalf, I set out this morn
ing at 10 o Clock in a Chaise, accompanied
by My Wife and Daughter. The D.T. for the
day was: "If thou couldst believe, all things
and possible to him that believeth." May my
faith be strengthened, and these words of my
Saviour be verified in me! He mercifully
granted me an easy mind, and a simple
reliance upon Him who will do all things
well. The D. W. was: "Unto you that fear
my name, the Sun of Righteousness shall
anise with healing in his Wings."
At the and of six weeks we re
turned from Bath, My dear Husband gra
dually improving in health from that
time, and (with the exception of reading,
which the still remaining dimness of
his sight prevented) being able to re
sume his ministerial duties with ease.
March 12th the dlay after our re
turn was his Birthday, on which occa
sion he has the following remarks in his


Diary." The D.W. from Prov. 3d 11 & 12
My Son despise not this chastening of the
Lord, neither be weary of his correction,
For whom the Lord loveth he correcteth
even as a Father the Son in whom he
delighteth" is strikingly appropriate
for this completion of the 51st Year of my
life. O Lord, my God and Redeemer, thou
hast chastened me, but not in anger.
Thou hast wounded me in the tenderest
part, but it is with a view to heal
My sinsick soul. Forbid that I shou'd
despise thy correction, or be weary
of it! Accomplish thy design with me
in this infliction of thy rod I can
distinctly trace abundant and very
undeserved mercies mingled with thy
judgments. Did I place culpable depen-
dence in bodily health and earthly en-
joyments, shew me my impotence, and
wean me from things visible. Were
my eyes improperly fixed on external
objects and on other mens Characters


and did I in attempting to be faithful
in office forgot faithfulness to my own
soul, teach to by the privation of clear
sight to look more carefully within, &
to bask in the light of thy Spirit! Help me
to comfort others with the comfort Where
with then comfort test me? Give me an in-
crease of humility, Sympathy, and an
affectionate demeanour! Let the bright
dawn of this morning be a pledge of a
return of brighter days, and still per-
mit me to serve thee on earth if con-
sistant with thy good and perfect will,
if not prepare me for thyself. Be thy
Passion and death my only hope in life,
and when walking through the valley
of the shadow of death."
His health continued in apparently
the same state till about two months pre-
vious to his decease, when his appetite
began to fail, and he was unable to the
solid food. His strength was now visibly
declining from day to day, and although


still continuing in the discharge of
laborious Ministerial duties, it was
evident that unless a material im-
provement soon took place, we could
not expect to see him much longer
among us.
On the 15th Octr. he went to Brockwear
near Tintern, to lay the foundation
of a Chapel there, a cause in which
he felt warmly interested, as he hoped
it Would be the means under the divine
blessing, of conveying the saving know-
ledge of Christ to a very destitute and
degraded population.
Thongh suffering under great
weakness of body he was enabled to go thro'
the duty, and in the evening addressed a
Sermon to a very crowded auditory.
The exertion however was too great for
his strength, and in his return next
day be appeared to suffer under great
exhaustion, sleeping in the Cabin
during the whole of the voyage.


On Sunday the 21st in a state of extreme
weakess he entered upon his duties as
usual. At the Congn meeting at 10 he spoke
on the D.W. for the day. "The memory of the
just is blessed." A Subject the more touching
because while he treated of it every mind
was impressed with the beleif that the truth
could be soon applicable to himself. He
afterwards preached with great clearness
and warmth on the Words of our Saviour
to the Paralytic man, Matth. 11 2 "Son
be of good cheer thy sins be forgiven thee."
This occasion was one of a most affecting
nature, and few of those who were present
will easily forget it. The discourse was
listened to as the Words of a dying man,
the Congn felt as it he was taking his
public leave of them, and participated in
the feelings of the Elders of the Church of
Ephesns, Sorrowing most of all that they
should see his face to more. In the after
noon he made an attempt to keep the Widows
Choir Meeting but was obliged by weakness


to dismiss them after a short prayer.
On Monday he went to the house of a kind
friend in Clifton, as it was hoped that 
change of air and scene might be of tem-
porary use to him. But this was not the
case, his strength rapidly declined. and
a drowsiness came on him, so that near-
by the whole of that day and Tuesday he
was in a dying state. On Tuesday a friend
called, and found him on the bed, it was
remarked, I fear you feel very weak. 
"Weak, weak, weak," was his reply. In a
 somewhat lower tone. "How very weak
I am, My Saviour well can see." When
looking round, "I long to be delivered from
the body." You never felt so before, did you?
it was asked. Oh no! it it seems strange
but one is so useless lying here."
An Affectionate message was delivered
from Br. P. La Trobe, adding that he would
gladly come down to assist him, had not
pressing Missionary business prevented.
These words seemed to revise his latent


energy and he said with earnestness. "I
wish he would come and preach a mission-
ary Sermon here." give my best love to them
all and tell him I have a missionany Ser-
mon to preach on Sunday week, and if he
would come and take it, that would indeed
be a good thing." While promising to de-
liver the message, it was asked, "but do
you look forward to that?" As of recol-
lecting his state, be calmly said, "I look
forward to nothing.
On Wednesday he expressed his desire
to return home, having prepared his
Sermon for that evening, and being parti-
cular desirous to Preach as he said he
had some delightful meditations on the
subject during the morning. He was con-
ducted down stairs and into the Car with
dificulty; on our arrival at home all
his strength seemed to be gone, and after
being supported into his Study he fainted
away. By the application of suitable means
he revived, and being asked how he felt,


replied, "I am in very blessed Meditation."
In the afternoon he was not quite himself
but spoke rather incoherently, and repeated-
ly asked if it was not time for the evening
Service being affraid lest we should deceive
him. About 5 o cleck he became quite sen-
sible, said he was very weak, and asked
who was going to Preach? and when I said
Br Seifferth he seemed quite contented.
I asked him if he felt our Saviours pre-
sence? he said "I feel very happy and long
to go." I said I thought it would not be long.
He said, "Do you think so? catching at my
words as if quite delighted with the idea.
With the Assistance of a Br we got him
up stairs to bed, and called in Dr. Pretch-
ard, who prescribed for him, but with
out affording relief. During the whole of
the evening he had a troublesome rattle
in his throat, be enquired if we heard it
and made the remark: "That will carry
me a good way to night." About nine oClock
he fell into a deep sleep from which he


never awoke, but peacefully and hap-
pily breathed his last about 2 o Clock in
the morning of Thursday the 25th Octr 1832,
after a Pilgrimage of 52 years & 7 Months.
Thus was this faithful Servant called
and by his gracious Master into his eternal
rest - a rest, into which, more especially
during the latter period of his illness, he
expressed his most ardent desire soon to en-
ter. When his health was suffering under
the first attack, and his speedy dissolution
was by some apprehended, and by himself
thought not improbable, he expressed his
perfect resignation to the will of God, whe-
ther for life or for death, but now he longed
for repose, his all absorbing desire
was, "to depart, and to be with Christ."
He said not much in his latter days rela-
tive to his departure, but what be did say
showed that his Mind was in a state of
heavenly peace, "looking for and hasting
to the coming of the Son of Man." That Sa-
viour whom it had been his delight to


recommend to others as the only Refuge in
the day of trouble comforted him with his
rod and his staff when passing thro' the
Shadowy vale of Death.
Yet while we cannot but rejoice in the
blessedness that is now his eternal portion.
and glorify God in his behalf, this Congn
deeply feels it loss in being deprived of
a faithful and affectionate Pastor. Great
was the love and esteem in which they held
him. It is in moments of difficulty that
the genuine feelings are elicted, and never
perhaps would the strength of the bond that
united them with him have been fully
understood, had it not pleased the Lord to
lay his afflicting hand upon our late dear
Brother's health. Then it was evinced how
near their interest lay at his heart, and
law Sympathetic a share they took in his
Afflictions. His temporary restoration
in which his people received him as one
lent to them from the dead, he ever consi
dered to be in answer to the faithful prayers


which there is reason to believe were conti
ually presented to the throne of Grace in his
behalf: And this was this dispensation ren
dered by the grace of the Lord, a means of spiri
tual blessing to his flock as well as to himself.
Endowed by him from whom every good
gift proceedeth, with strong mental powers
and great energy and decision of Character,
these endowments which when Misdirected,
prove but a snare to the possesser and an
injury to others, being in him sanctified
by the Grace of God, were devoted to the welfare
of his fellow creatures, and the extention of
his Saviours kingdom. In whatever
sphere of life he had been thrown, he would
have been an active and enterprising man.
But his heart having been won by a Saviours
love, and his mind taught the vast supe
riority of eternal over temporal and visi
ble things, he saw that to be made the hum
ble instrument of saving loving Souls was an
honor above every other, and to this point
he directed all his energies of mind & body.


It was constantly apparrent that he had one
great object in view - the Service of his Lord
nor was he ready to allow mere consideration
of difficulty or labour for a moment to
interrupt any plan that seemed likely to
advance it. This Singleness of view could
not but win the respect even of those to whom
his uncompromising and (as he has him-
self with humility acknowledged) occasion-
ally harsh manner might have given offence.
In the discharge of his Pastoral duties
he was unwearied, regularly visiting every
member of his flock and attending at the
bed of the sick.
As a Minister, he was a scribe well
instructed unto the Kingdom of Heaven.
His naturally strong talents were furnishd
with materials by assiduous Study. The
word of God was the mine in which he con-
tinually delved, and having in his ownh
heart felt the vitality of its truths, he was
enabled to place them before his heavens with
the clearness of spiritual discernment, and


that freshness which self experience alone
can impart. His discourses were distin-
guished by great perspicuity and power,
his mind readily grasped the bearings of
his subject, and he had the faculty of
placing it in a strong light before his
hearers. But above all there was a warmth
of heart and an earnestness for the sal-
vation of souls, which under the operation
of the Holy Spirit brought home the truth
to the heart, and we have with humility
to thank the Lord that his Ministry here,
as well as in former stations, has been
attended by his distinguished blessing, that
many Souls have through him been
brought to a knowledge of their lost state
by nature, and been led to the cross of
Christ, and found pardon and peace thro'
them, and that the weak believer has been
strengthened, the desponding encouraged
the mourner comtorted, and many, we
trust, established and built up in the 
faith.


It was his delight to present to his fel-
low Sinners that salvation, which was pro-
cured by the sufferings and death of the
incarnate Son of God, in all its fulness
and freeness and to point him to the Lamb
of God as taking away the Sins of the World.
Yet he withheld no part of the counsel of
God. He insisted upon the vital nature
of true faith in Christ, and the conse-
quent necessity of its purifying the heart
and manifesting itself in works of love.
His Sermons had therefore always a
practical character, evangelical prin-
ciples being traced to their legitimate
operations in the Mind and their effect
upon the life. He was well acquainted
with the deceitful workings of the human
heart, and with unsparing hand would
tear away the disguises under which
they were concealed. No hearer was allowd
to forget himself, and his own case under
the consideration of bare generalities, but
the Preacher by making not indeed personal


but individual application of the truth, 
??? to manifest it so as to "come
mind himself to every mans conscience
in the sight of God."
May the bright paths of active oper-
ation which he had in the Lord's service
(and for which we ascribe not the glory
to him, but to the grace of God that was
in him) serve as an example to sti-
mulate us all. This defect let us avoid
they were to him a cause of painful 
humilation: but let us recognize the
truths of a devoted diciple of Christ
conspicuous in this his Servant,
and pray that he may have grace
its follow him in as far as he followed
the Divine Master. May the Lord be
graciously pleased to pour down a double
portion of his Spirit on those who are ???
privileged to labour in has vineyard! and
may he call forth and duly qualify many
others who may be willing to spend themselves
and be spent in His Service!


