The Life of the Widow Sister. Millan Ratcliffe of Wyke
who departed Febry 18 1772.
She was Born at Birch Roads in the Parish of
Ealand 1695. by the best intelligence we can get Her Father
Died when she was an Infant, & her Mother soon Marrying again,
she was car'd for by an aunt who brought her up in the Religion
of the Establish'd Church, wth whom she also liv'd till her 20th year
when she was Married to Jas Ratcliff & came to live at upper
Wyke, by whom she had 8 Sons & one Daughter.
When the Gospel was first preach'd in these parts by
Mr Ingham & the Brn; she with her Husband attended deligently
& became concern'd fr about their Salvation & were Recd in 
the Society at Scoles.
Novr 13 1750 She was Reced in the Congn & went to
the Comn Decr 5: 1751. & continued in the enjoyment of her
priviledges in the Congn wch she esteem'd an especial Grace
born our Savr. Oct 9th 1769 She became a widow when
her Husband was taken happily home in her a short Sickness
During her Widowhood she was very industrious to earn her own
living by spinning altho for several years past was very infirm yet content
in her poverty & maintain'd her Confidence to our Savr & was esteem'd
a faithful honest person by those who employd her.
She has had some special manifestations of our Savr Love,
which attached her heart to Him as the Sinner's Friend, & made
the Fellowship with the Congn more precious unto her.
For this 12 Months past she has not been capable of attending
the meetings at the Chapl on account of her infirmities, notwithstanding
she continued her endeavours for Subsistance more than co'd: have


been well expected from her in her condition, & being belov'd by
the Brn & Srs she was assisted to come thro' without suffering
want. We have frequently Visited her wch was a Refreshment
to her heart, & had cause of thankfulness to find her contented in
her poverty & lonelyness, the last time she shar'd of the h. Comunion
She was particularly tender & thankful, yet but had no expectation
of being call'd home so soon.
On the 15th instant she was taken very Ill in the night, &
was expected she wod then have gone but she Reviv'd, & being ask'd
how she felt & what she Thought of her self, she said, the fearce
knew how she was, but she never felt so in her Life, at the Same
time had a very clear & Serene look which impression continued
with her till her last, & she acknowledg'd with gratitude the
kindness shown to her by the Srs in the neighbourhood who attended
her faithfully, whom she was glad to have with her otherwise
She was most inclin'd to be alone. But as she Reviv'd again
& was not confin'd to her Bed it was thought she might Recover
on Monday the 17th Br Lyons Visited her, when she was up &
complaind she was weak but had no apprehension she wod
her time was so near, she was resign'd to our Savr will & her
Election of Grace was clear to her.
The Day of her departure she was capable of going going
to her next neighbours & employ'd her self in mending her
cloaths, In the Evening she desir'd a Sr to make her a
little Tea wch she drank & Eat thereto with a good Relish
but about 8 o'clock  she alter'd suddenly & went over into her
Eternal Bridegroom's arms in a soft an easy manner
having spent in this mortal Life about 77 Years.


