A few particulars relative to the Course of Life of
Hannah Sophia Robbins who departed at Fulneck
5th February 1855.
The following few remarks must necessarily be
very imperfect, as the departed left behind her few
written Memoranda referring in any measure to her
walk through life.
What is now given are a few details penned
down from memory.
As any references to the departed can only be of
use and avail, in to far as they may be turned to
practical account by the living, it is hoped, the
experiences she made may in some instances be
as beacons for warning; in others, as calls to be
followers of the Lord Jesus; and again also as encour
agements to lay hold on Him, who is the Author
and Finisher of our Salvation.
She was born on the 28th of November 1823, at
Saint Johns, in the Island of Antigua, where her
parents were at that time serving as Missionaries
of the Church of the United Brethren. Nothing of any
importance can be remembered of her early life.
She was dedicated to the Lord in her childhood,
and instructed in the things pertaining to Godliness


Her stay in the Island of her birth was of six years
duration; until her Father and Mother were called
in December 1829, to superintend the Mission in the
Island of Saint Kitts. 
In the Spring of 1833, she along with several
other children, was brought to England for education,
and placed in the Boarding School in this settlement,
when in her tenth year. She remained there till the
summer of 1838, when she removed to the Single
Sisters House in Fairfield; but she had not resided
there long before an evident alteration took place.
Her health, which had hitherto been good, began to
decline. Many means were resorted to, but none ap
peared to restore it; and as it was stated that the
climate did not agree with her constitution, she was
removed in 1843 to the Single Sisters House in this 
place. Her stay here continued, with few intervals, till
1845. In this year she left Fulneck, and went to
Harrogate for the purpose of assisting Miss Hinch
liffe, in her Boarding School for young ladies.
Her health again proved the barrier to her holding
this situation long, and soon she returned again to
Fulneck. An unbroken course of seven years was now
passed in the Sisters House.
In February 1853 she again obtained a situation
as governess in a family residing at Heaton, near
Bradford; For rather more than a year she lived here,
and gained the confidence of the parents, and the
affection of the children. During this time she was


resisting the gradual but fatal decease with which she
was visited. It proved, however, more than she could
bear; and, entirely prostrated by it, she was brought
home very ill.
Under prompt and efficient medical attendance and
care, which were blessed by God, she so far rallied
that she was able to assist a little in giving instruction
in the Girls Day School. As long as her strength word
permit her, she persevered; but about the middle
of December last, she felt herself constrained to desist;
and then it appeared evident to all that her de
parture was nigh at hand. Lingering, and yet
struggling on, she wasted away, her existence
almost a burden. And this she continued
until of pleased the Lord to liberate her from her
suffering, on the morning of the 5th of February.
With regard to her Christian experience, we would
state the following.
During her early years, and throughout her resi
dence in the Boarding School in this place, she
never (that she could recollect) had any distinct
feelings of drawings of Grace; and falling into
the ways of the young, thought little of Christ and
her soul's salvation. In such a state of mind
as this, she left Fulneck, and entered the Single
Sisters House in Fairfeld. Here, as before
stated, her bodily health began to fail; but


here also it was that her first and abiding reli
gious impressions were made. It pleased the
Lord to work upon her heart with His Spirit.
The influences felt were always remembered; and
it was while receiving instruction preparatory to
her admission to the Lord's Supper, and during the
hour of her confirmation, the feelings of Love to her
Saviour were strongest. When in serious mood,
she always looked back to this time with pleasure,
and frequently asserted that she derived much good
and blessing from the discourses of the late Br. Thos
Mallalieu, who was then Minister of the Congregation.
From this date a long blank appears. Satan
was evidently striving hard to root out the good
seed, and ofttimes to human eyes, had succeeded.
She was often then drawn by Godless companions
into a frivolous and unsettled frame of mind;
looking for pleasure to the things and the people of
the world, more than to the things and the people of
God. There was at the time alluded to a craving
after these things in her own heart, so that
worldly schemes were speedily and cordially em
braced and engaged in. Her naturally re
served disposition prevented her at times
from giving expression so much that she felt
whatsoever she did say in respect to her state of


heart we believe was strictly truth. Her thorn in the 
flesh was no doubt Irritability of temper; but this
might be partly traceable to her bodily condition,
and the influence of the malady with which she
was affected.
In the February of last year she returned home
much reduced in strength, and for a time thought
her end was near. Hope however soon revived.
Still she clung to life, and longed for health. From
this time we think we may date a work begun, and
we trust completed, in her by the hand of God. The
finger of the Lord was gradually writing Saved
upon her heart. A change in her sentiments, her
feelings, and her temper was soon perceptible.
 Less of a worldly tone marked her conversations.
Her thoughts were more firmly fixed upon her soul
and God. The irritability of temper gave way; and
resignation, affection, and gratitude characterized
her. It was evident the work if grace had fully set
in. Still she despaired not of life. The complaint, de
ceptive in its working, often deceived her. At times
the hope of recovery almost amounted to confidence
and then again doubt and gloom took possession of her.
In December last the closing conflict began the
days of her pilgrimage, it was evident to all, were number
ed and few. She now became more resigned to the will
of God concerning her, and was at this time very anx
ious to improve the public means of grace that presented
themselves. Her attendance at the Chapel was often against


advice, but go she would, and no doubt received much
blessing. The last Communion in the old year was one of
very great enjoyment to her soul, and then she was al
mosmt too weak to stand. It was the last time she stood
to worship God in these his earthly courts. The ripening
for Eternity was now rapid. There was a craving for
the food of life; and her language was, yet more,
yet more, she could not be satisfied, the cup could
not be filled to overflowing. All who were willing
to lead or point her to Jesus were welcome. Kind
friends were not wanting. To such she was grateful
to the last; and as Christ has said. "Whosoever shall
give a cup of cold water to one of the least of these my
disciples shall in no wise lose his reward," their labour
love and their words shall be rewarded hereafter.
There were several whom she was always peculiarly
anxious to see, the Sisters Hunting and Haster in
particular. Among them was also our dear Br. Libbey,
whose conversation was relished, and whose advice
was willingly and thankfully taken. She regretted very
much she could not see him once more before she died.
In all these things we believe her confidence was not in
man, but in God. She had many conversations with
her Labouress after the idea of her recovery had passed
away. On one occasion, upon her remarking, "She
had no hope of her health returning, and no wish
that life should be prolonged, but a desire to depart
and be with Christ;" it was asked; Upon what do you
ground Your hope of acceptance? Is it on that desire
to depart? or on any good in yourself? She replied with
firmness "Oh. No." Do you feel that the blood of Jesus


alone, His finished work on the Cross, can save you
from eternal death? "O Yes" she replied, "that is
all my hope, I have never been able to express my
feelings in words, but I think the power will come."
She frequently desired the prayers of her friends, and
said "She desired the company of none but thou who
would converse with her on the concerns of her soul." In
review of her past life, the wish that she had lived
more to the glory of God seemed to possess her mind and
fill her with humility. On a message of affection from
her dear absent Minister (Mr Libbey) being given to her,
that he hoped she was enabled to adopt the language
of the verse of No 418, "In thy wounds, O Jesus" &c
she said "I can." She was sometimes tempted to
regard her bodily sufferings as a barrier between
herself and that full tide of love she longed, should
flow towards Him who died to redeem her. At
another time she said "Yesterday I felt our Saviour
be so very precious to me." You could cast all your
hopes and fear upon him? it was asked "Yes I could"
She then mentioned the comfort she had derived from
reading & meditating on the 14th Chapter of Saint
John's Gospel. On Sunday afternoon she was very
weak and languid, and greatly dreaded the last strug
gle between soul and body. She was encouraged to
believe that the Lord would spare her by taking all
pain away at that solemn moment, and shew
Himself near her in the dark valley. She took


comfort and said "Tis only the breaking up of the 
earthly tabernacle" and added that "she had no fears
beyond the grave."
Last Sunday to Br Willey visited her. She felt encour
aged by his words, and desired him to call again,
little thinking that her end was so near.
Throughout the night she was unusually restless, and,
when a little composed, was anxious that her father
should read and pray with her. He did so, and when
prayer was ended, she requested two hymns to be
read, viz; "Rock of ages, cleft for me" &c
and, "Jesus, Lover of my Soul" &c
She lingered on till morning, and when her dis
solution was known to be at hand, Br Willey
was sent for, who prayed, and blessed her for her
departure. About half past eight she gently fell
asleep, after a pilgrimage of 31 years and 2 months.
Her hope, we believe, was firmly anchored within
the veil, and the language of her experience is
"Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy
youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years
draw nigh, when thou shall say, I have no
pleasure in them. 


