The life of the S. Sister Sarah Robinson as wrote by
herself.
I was born in Hallifax March 8th 1712
My parents brought me up very carefully & inxthueted me in
my principles of the Church of England. I can remember draw
ings from our Savior from my very Infancy, 
but being of a fret
I was
uneasy 
ful & anxious temper oftentimes I shou'd
offend God. In the night time in my sleep, I often
dreamt of the dissolution of the World & day of Judgment:
which made me very uneasy to think how it wou'd be with me
at that time. My Father died when I was about ten years of
age, & my Mother being left a widow. she moved with me & two
younger sisters out of Hallifax to a place called Ovenden my
Mother being a person deply concern'd for her Salvation,
she
many times wept & prayed day & night that both her  & her
children might please the Lord, which made a great impress
ion on me. I went frequently with her to Church, and was
very attentive to what the Minister spoke, & took a pleasure
in so doing. but this did not satisfy me: it came often into
it would 
my mind how will it be with me when I die-- & being excee
dingly frighten'd with Thunder & Lightning I wish'd it might
always happen on a Sunday when I was at Church, for then
I thought, if the day of Judgment shou'd come, the Lord wou'd
have mercy upon me because I wwas in such a holy place
as I then look'd upon the Church to be. When I was grown
up I had an inclination to go to service and accordingly
went to several, but still retain'd my religious turn of mind, 
In my 21st year one of my near relations who was then in York.
sent for me to go & live with her, as she had always a great
love for me, I was glad of this, tho my Mother did not like
to part with me as she was then left alone, this relation kept a
wines Tavern & I was to be her chamber maid: but being quite a stran
trouble
ger to the hurry &  
of such a city, & seeing & heareing all kind
of vanitys, of which I was before in great measure ignorant it frigh
tned me very much seeing myself expos'd to many dangers, I spoke


I spoke seriously to my Mistriss with many tears about & beg'd
her to keep a watchful eye over me, as I was quite unacquted
with the manner of the place, She spoke tenderly to me pro
mis'd to care for me, as much as lay in her power; so I 
more chearful in my place, & went on in my usial way, reading
and praying to the Lord to keep & preserve me and I believe
he heard my prayers. When my year was out my Mother
wrote me a tender letter, desiring me to come home to her again,
I cou'd have had several good places, but cou'd not bear to stay
against her mind. I went home but still wanted a fine place,
in order to prefer myself, & it just happen'd that a Gentleman
come from Wales to Hallifax, who was to take possession of an
Estate. called Kirkles & they wanting a servant, my Mother
got me the place: accordingly I went to live with them & my
Master & Mistress lov'd me very much. about this time I began
to be thoughtful about going to the Sacrament & toald my mother
therof she desired me to advise with a friend of hers. who was
a religious person; accordingly I went & told him my whole
heart with many tears. He spoke with me about the threatning
of God to those that do not fear him, & his promises to them
that love Him. He told me what a good thing it was to have
a promise to rely upon on ones death bed. but I not finding 
any promise in my heart, & not being  willing to be without,
I wrote myself some in order to have them by me, when I came
to my death bed; such as this! Come unto me all ye that are
weary &c. & many others out of the psalms and other good books,
for I was seldom without me in my pocket. I remember
once going to clean my Mistress's room & there opening my lit
tle book, I found this passage which said, that God did not re
quire so much of a poor Servant as of a rich Master, which 
rejoyc'd me very much to think that God was so good to poor
Servants but then a fear came in my mind because we were
only two Servants & cou'd therefore only go to Church in the after
noon I was affraid my Mrs wou'd take it amiss if I shou'd ask
her to let me go in the Morning I told my Mother of it she
beg'd me not to be affraid, but speak with my Mrs, which I did 
and she was much pleas'd to find, that I was so well inclin'd &
fetch'd me her own preparation book to read, which I perus'd


I perus'd dilligently the whole week, the prayers being much
longer then my own. On Sunday Morning she told me at 
my Mother liv'd near the Church, & I intended going to the 
Sacrament, she wou'd give me leave to go & stay there all
the day. this happen'd on Palm Sunday. The Minister spoke
much about the Sacrament, & said it was better to go poor & 
unworthy, than not go at all, which comforted me a little. 
but still I found myself asham'd on account of my unfitness;
Our Savior was near to me. tho I knew him not, for when 
I had receiv'd the Sacrament, it was as if a load was taken of
my heart, & I con'd beg Him with tears to keep me that
nothing might happen, which cou'd prove a dishonour to 
His name. Soon after this, I remov'd with the family to Hir
kles Hall, where my Lady put me with another serious &
well meaning person into the Nursery & we together had pres
sure in our religious devotion. We had prayers twice a day
in the family, which I always attended and also went frequ
ently to church & to the holy Sacrament. When Mr Ingham
come about preaching in this Country, as soon as my Mrs
heard of it, she sent an invitation to him to come & preach 
in Harchet Church, accordingly he came & stay'd in the 
family some days, we had private meetings Night and
Morning for all that pleas'd to come as long as he stay'd,
as soon as I heard him, I look'd upon him as an Angel
of God, & made opportunity when I cou'd to speak with him
alone tho' always fearing my fellow servants wou'd find it out
and I shou'd be treated with scorn by them, which also was
the case, notwithstanding this I persuaded two of those I 
was most intimate with to go with me to hear him once
More which they did, He exhorted us to love one another
and not forget to read the holy scriptures & so we parted.
My Mistress by some circumstances that had happen'd was
prejudice against Mr. Ingham, & forbidme ever going to 


hear him again, threatening at the same time, if even I did,
I shou'd lose my place, this affected me not a ittle. for
my Eternal Salvation lay very near me at that time. I thought
by Mr. Inghams doctrine I might perhaps be led into the
night way to obtain it. I wrote for advice in this case to
a religious Society with whom my Mother was join'd, in
answer they advis'd me not to leave my place on this account
they believ'd he was a good man but a Stranger & no me
knew how things might turn out., I complied herein
and stay'd in the family 5 or 6 years longer, but any little
misfortune that happen'd to the child, I nurs'd put me up
on thoughts that the Lord was displeas'd with my being
here, & so concluded to leave my place & go home to my
Mother, where I con'd serve the Lord (as I thought) more 
dilligently. But when I got home I had not enough of the 
world, but thought I shou'd like to get into place again
which I did & stay'd there about two years. My Mother
being old & infirm I resolv'd to go & live with her again. Whi
I also did. Still retaining the greatest respect for mr
Ingham as formerly. I soon inquired if he ever came to 
preach in Hallifax. My Mother told me there were 
some people come to preach at a place call'd Worlds End.
not far from the place I liv'd. that they preach'd good does?
time, & she shou'd like me to go & hear them, I had not
much likeing to it. as the meetings were kept in a pri
vate house: however as my Mother desired it I went the 
week following. When I got there Br Hutchings who kept 
the meeting had begun to sing which I lik'd very well
the text was, Behold this is the day of Salvation. now
the Lord was pleas'd to work upon my heart. so that I cou'd
heartily desire him to let me know my day of Salvation
to grant me
but 
Saying. Lord! deny me of what thou wilst only deny me
not this one thing, that I may know I have an interest
in a bleeding Savior, the Lord who is ever good was pleas'd
to show me the vileness of my heart: and also 
gave me comfort 


comfort in these words. But we beleive through the grace of
our Lord Jesus Christ, we shall be saved even as they.
the weeks following I went again to hear Br Hutchings preach
the treat was. Without shedding of Blood is no remission.
The lord was pleas'd at this time to reveal himself to me:
so that it was the sweetest sermon that ever I had heard in 
my life, for I was able to shed tears of joy & love to my bless'd
Savior, who had Suffer'd & dy'd for me so vile a sinner.
My Mother being a member of a religious society I went
with her to the meetings, & they having a great love for
me, did not like me to give heed to any new preaching
but wanted me to continue with them, which I cou'd not
agree to, thinking one shou'd be at liberty to go where one
was most benifited: Mr Grimshaw being minister of
that Society. He sent them writings to read together. Which
I lik'd very much. & went several times to con
verse with him in their company & also partook of the
sacrament with them. Which was a great blessing to
me, but he always advis'd me. not to fail going to hear
the Brn as I had receiv'd such blessing by their Tes
timony. I spoke with Br Horne. & after some time had
the favor to be a member of the Brns society of which I 
was very glad. for I really beleiv'd them to be the people
that I was called to & it was a particular pleasure to
me to see any of the Brn & Srs when they came to Hallifax.
particularly Br Horn for I lov'd him much tho he dealt
very closely with me about selfrightious & unsinnerlike
ness of which I was not sensible. 
I dreamt one night
that I was speaking with Mr Grimshaw & all on a sud
den. I saw our dear savior coming in the clouds. & the
brightness of his wounds fill'd the whole element. and I
ran to fetch my Mother. but awakening out of my sleep.
was troubled to find it only a dream. for I thought I cou'd
live no longer, but must go to our Savior. Sometime
after it pleas'd our Savior to take my dear Mother


Mother happily home, which was a great trial to me.
for we had liv'd very agreeably together. 
I wrote to Sr Clagget desiring to think of me. for tho I had
many offers from friends & relations, yet I cou'd not think
of settling in the world having no liberty in my heart but
wanted to live amongst the Sisters. Soon after I had leave
where
to come & live at Oxhays were I was tenderly cared for
by the Sisters.  tho it was somtime before I knew how it
wou'd go with me finding it very difficult to leave my
relations and the pleasing things of the world as they
then appear'd to me; but the Brn & Srs had patience
with me, & our Savior who is ever faithful, often made it clear
to me that if I did not abide with his people, I shou'd be
a miserable creature, this was indeed a school for my heart.
for not having learn'd to depend on our savior in all circum
stances, I came into many byways, which affected me so that
it impair'd my health for some time. I did not tell it my Labou
ress, fearing lest I shou'd be sent away. & that I cou'd not
bear, as I lov'd the Choir House as my life.
In the year 1756 I was seiz'd with a nervous fever & was
brought so weak thereby, that I expected & look'd for nothing
else but my dissolution. This sickness prov'd the means
of our Savior Showing me quite clearly, where I was still
wanting. & the emtiness of things, that had hither to been
an anoyance to me in my course. & by the close connections
I enjoy'd with him at that time. my former heaviness was 
removed. I saw & understood many things betwixt my Savior
and my own heart, in quite a different light. 
About this time our late Sister writes in a letter to a friend
the following. I can now say with Jacob I am not worthy
of the least of thy mercies As the prodigal. I am not worthy
and
to be called thy son. as the Publican Lord be merciful to 
and 
me a sinner. as Paul, of Sinners I am chief. and now
I humbly beg that the Lord will assist me by this spirit;
that I may also say It is my meat & my drink 


drink to do thy will O Lord. I hope my dear friend will excus
me writing more largely on the love of our ever blessed
Jesus & of the power of his free grace in my poor heart. I
cou'd like to say much more on the subject, but am a very 
poor writer, I bless God I am what I am. & may He gran
me ever with Mary to chuse that one thing needful whi
will help me to say with St Paul I can do all things through
Christ who strengtheneth me.
After 4 months Illness I was so far recoverd as to be able
to be again with my room Sisters, tho I was still so weak in 
Body that for a long time I thought my time in this 
World wou'd be short & heartily rejoice'd at the thoughts
thereoff. After some time seeing my expectation & desire
not granted. one Morning feeling myself very weak and 
impatient for the time to come when I might lay down this
tabernacle, I was speaking to our Savior about it, & it was to me
as if he stood by me, & ask'd me? Why I was so impatient, direc
tly that Verse come into my Mind. which gave me comfort,
altho the time seems long to me: Even here I'm in eternity
Because I live in jesus: the impression of this I shall ne
verforget. I grew more satidfy'd. & only wish'd that whether my
time shou'd be long or short that I might daily live in the 
enjoyment of our Saviors blessings, that thereby I might be
enabled to bear evry difficulty I might meet with in my
future course. & to conclude I can say this with shame
that amidst my many faults & deficiences, our Savior has
graciously help'd me thro' & many times when I have
been at a loss which way to turn my heart has been dire
cted to Him, where I have always found a sufficiency for
all I wanted. Thus for our late Sisters own account,
We can give her the testimony that amidst all 


faults & defects her walk and conversation amongst us
was such as become a child of God. for these many years
past she has ardently long'd to depart this life & to be
at home with her souls redeemer, which came to pass
when sudden & unexpected on Saturday Jany 23rd 
she remov'd into the sick room and said now I think my 
dear Savior will soon come & take me home to himself.
on the 24th it was very evident that her dissolution was
approaching. it was indeed very pleasing to be with her.
as the prospect she had in view of soon entering into his 
presence where there is fulness of joy caused almost
evry breath she drew to be an anthem of praise and
thanksgiving to her crucified savior. Till her latest
breath she repeated these words my dear Savior come
soon, come soon. early on Monday the 25th she was
bless'd to her departure and soon after fell gently and
th
happily assleep in the Lord in the 84 year of her age 


