Septr the 5th 1764 Mary Scott a Single Women in Hallifax who
was before her last sickness in no Connection with us went Hapily to our Savr
she was born in the above mentiond Townin 1734; Her Parents being Church people
Educated her in the same Way, her Mother was Concerned for her own Salvation;
and when, Mr. Ingham preached several times in Hallifax Church, she
went to hear him, as also afterwards the Brn; & took this her Child alone
with her, but afterwards she became Sick, & went I Happily out of
time in 1746 in relyance upon Jesus Merits. This her Daughter was
then in her 13 Year, she Liv'd all the rest of her time with her Father
& Kept House for him, as a Dutifull Obedient Child, but did not follow
the Brn. any more After her Mothers departure, but went to Church &
led a Still & quiet life, bore a good Character amongst all those that Knew
her. About 2 Year ago she had the first Symtoms of a Consumption and
Dropsy, but was restored again by timely Assistance; However a Troublesome
Cough & Shortness of Breath attended her ever After, she came during that time
now & then to the Stanery to hear the Brn which always left on impression
upon her mind, however she being inclin'd to be good, the Convictions to Seek
forgiveness of Sins in our Savr & his Bloody Visits remained a Mistery to
Her. About Christmass last past her Cough increased to a great degree &
the Dropsial Symtoms Appeared low again, this she went on to the
latter end of February, when she disired one of our Single Srs: to tell the
Br: who comes to the Stanery to come to see her, & Br. Schulze who has the
care of that plan at present went on February the 28th to see her the first
time, when she told him her great concern to be saved with many Tears
and he painted the Friend of Sinners as Crucified to her heart, which had
also its wished for Effect, for she soon Observed that all her former Piety
availed nothing, which gave her great pain. About a fortNight after
it was made clear to her that all selfmade Piety was an Abomination to
our Saviour, & she ventur'd as one who all her Life time had endeavoured to
establish a Rightiousness of her own, as a Sinner to our Saviour, & He
as the Sinners Friend drew near her Heart, which gave her great Comfort
& has never left her during her long & painfull Sickness. Br. Schulze
recomended her to the Single Srs who live at Stanery, & they have
visited her partly every Day to her great Comfort. Sr: Whitehead & some
other Sisters from Wike have also several times gone to Visit her.
Sr May & Ann Birkby who Visited this plan visited her likewise on
June the 18th to their Satisfaction, just then her Dropsy being at Height
& she was Swell'd to a High degree. She has been Oblidg'd to sit up


& has not been in Bed since Mid-Sumer Day, but has indured every
thing with such Uncomon Patience, that it Struk even Natural People with
Amase, to see her so chearfull & Childlike amidst those incredible pains she
indured, which became at last so Troublesome that she had no rest our Sleep
for near a Week togather, & when ever she must be moved or Lifted at any
time, she could not forbear Crying out like one that is pierced thro.
When ever she was overcome with impatience, she Wept soon After
Ask'd pardon of those about her & Called herself a Coward, because she
did not bear more Childlikely, what our Saviour was pleas'd to let her,
indure.  I continued Visiting her for these 27 Weeks every Tuesday
but one, with real Satisfaction; & found her Heart always Tender,
Towards our Saviour, never did I visit any one more glad & Thank
full then she was every time, amidst her Pitefull & Painfull Sickness,
She being poor, our Saviour raised up Friends who assisted her in all
she stood in deed off; and among the rest a Young Women, who has proved
a Friend indeed: One Grace Holdin who was aquainted with her from
a Child, who has spent most of her time with her & Nurs'd her to the 
best of her Knowledge & when even her Dropsy broke & became
disagreeable she has either Dress'd & Kept her clean herself, or procur'd
some Body to do it for her. however by seing Mary Carried on in such
a manner & hearing me Speak with her has likewise get a concern
for her Souls Salvation, & has come to meetings to the Stanery & disires
to be recieved into the Society. When I saw poor Mary the Tuesday before
last her feet Mortifying & her Body full of exquisite pain, it moved
my heart with such pityy & Compassion, that I could not Speak a word
for some time for altho she was Dress'd twice a Day her Feet which had
great holes, began to be so bad that a Kind of Grups grew in it & fell
out of the holes, but this did not last longer then 2 or 3 Days, I visited
her the last time on Septr. the 4th I Kept her a Liturgy with great
Tenderness, & prayed our Saviour to hasten her dissolution & take her soon
out of this bodily pain, which also came to pass the Day Following about
9 o'Clock in the fornoone, when first the one arm became lifeless &
then that whole side she sinking togather disired to be raised up, & said
soon After now my dear Lamb is acoming for me, which were her last
words, & soon after she fall happily asleep in the 30 year of her age
she is now in Peace.


