Memoir of the Sle Sr Elizabeth
Sharman who departed this life
at Fulneck on Monday Dec 13th
1858.
Our late Sr was born Feb 13th 1795
at the village of Knotting in Bedfordshire
where her father was a farmer & at an
early age she removed with her parents
 to Risely in the same county. Here the
Brethren had a small chapel, but no
resident minister. This her parents
felt to be a great loss to their children
& therefore placed this their eldest child
at the age of 13 in the Srs house at Bedford,
that she might enjoy the spiritual
benefits of which they were deprived.
During a 7 years residence there she
came to her priviliges as a member of
the Brns church, & as she had to wait
Long for reception into the congregation
she was by this circumstance led to
much self examination, but the


Ministry of the late Br Ramftler
was under God the means of her coming
to a knowledge of her own depravity, as
well as the place of Salvation by the
blood of the Lamb. In this house she
lived most happily & removed to Fulneck 
Srs House April 22nd 1815.
Here a new sphere of actions presented
itself to her, as she began to keep school
in connection with the late Sr Oxley.
In this post trials were not wanting
but she went to the strong for strength
& this forced that Grace she needed for
this situation. During the time she
lived here her parents removed to Baildon
& once when both she & they were in great
trouble she took a solitary walk on
the moor adjoining their house, to pour
out her complaint to her Saviour, and
earnestly to ask him to manifest
himself to her so that she might be
enabled to leave her every care in his
hands, & be assured of her personal
acceptance in the Beloved. While thus
engaged light broke in on her troubled
mind & she could say, Now I know in
whom I have believed, & can rejoice
in God my Saviour.


During her residence in Fulneck
Srs Houses she had is slight stroke of
Paralysis which probably laid the
foundations for those that subsequently
followed. April 22nd 1820 she removed
to Bedford school where she had a
most comfortable time till April 7th
1821, when an unexpected event
occurred when life, which took her home
to Keighley, where her dear Parents
had just removed, while this dispensation
was one which marred the whole of her
following years, was fraught with
blessing to the rest of the family.
During the year 1821 she was indeed
so heavily afflicted that it appeared
sometimes as though her delicate
frame could scarecly bear as under
her manifold sorrows, but the comforts
of a loving mother, & the wonderful
leading which brought her to be at this
time the great support of her dear
afflicted Parents, often led her today
It is of the Lord's doing tho' marvelous
in our eyes. During the 27 years of
her life spirit in Keighley much of joy
& sorrow were mingled in her cup, but


though not always on the Mount
she could always say surely goodness
& mercy have followed me all the days
of my life. She writes Christmas Eve
1825. Our ever memorable day spent
with my dear friend in Manchester. 
How much are we indebted to a divine
Providence when the circumstances
of our lives are so ordered, as to ???
what is good in us & restrain what is
evil. June 20th 1837 One of the most
eventful periods of my life, when after
a very short illness my dear Father was
removed peace & at this period I again
covenanted with my Saviour to live
more to this glory. August 1839
Greatly harassed is body & mind, but
helped to feel a desire to leave myself
in the Lord's hands, but felt unwilling
to follow his leading, when crossed in
my own places. Sept 12th 1842
Spent a short time at Hornsey when
I had twice for reflections & feelings only
known to myself, when reviewing this
& the preceeding years. Spent much
time in prayer & a feeling of resignation
to the Lord's I dispensation towards me
1843 Entered this year with feelings
of thankfulness for temporal merits.


During that year was called to be
the Laboures of the Sle Srs in Gracehill,
but declined it from my insufficiency
in this post as well as from a con
viction that I did right to do so, as
well as face an unwillingness to
be the means of so much discomfort
to my dearly beloved Mother, who was
now so happily settled with us.
1845 Had this year much distressing
??? on my dear Mothers account,
owing to a severe illness which now
attacked her, but was enabled to
leave all in the Lord's hands, & the
happy hours we were favoured to
enjoy during the sleepless nights
we spent together will never be forgotten
by me. In 1846 her dear
Mother was happily removed from time
after a lingering illness, & this
circumstances connected with her
ill health owing to an overworking
of her delicate frame caused her removal
to Fulneck in the Spring 1848 where
where she had as much rest & comfort
as she could have, been another heavy
stroke completed the work already
made, & all that now same remained for
her was complete retirement;


this she obtained in the Srs house
here, & where revisiting her past life could
say, Here I aided my ??? hither
by they help I'm ??? And shape
by thy good pleasures. Safely to arrive
at home. Owing to her severe convulsive
attacks, with which she was visited, and
the restlessness consequent upon them
as well as the heavy paralytic seizures
with which she was attacked she could
not converse on many subject for
long but being fully aware of the nature
of her complaint, she kept on the watch
tower, & though not always walking in
the light of Gods countenance yet she
knew in whom she had believed & trusted
alone in the merits & deaths of her
Saviour & did we humbly believe
experience the truth of that word "At
Eventime it shall be light." Her age
is 63 years & 10 months.
Of our dear departed Sister it
may be truly said that previous
do her last long & painful illness
all her walk & conversations were a
living commentary of that word
on which hung all her hope of
the safety of her Soul, & richly was her
memory stored with sweet portions


of the Inspired Volumes & even when
the thickening cloud of suffering threw
its shade over her head, & she would with
tearful eyes mourn over the hidings
of her Emanuel's face a reminder
of some precious promise of His, would
speedily draw forth the believing smile
& impart comfort to her before sinking
heart. She loved to frequent the Throne
of Grace & mercy & sought companion
ship there from her Sister & others.
On one occasion is deep distress
of mind, thinking that the smiles of
Jesus would never more leave accross
her path - the words "At Eventide it
shall be light" occur'd to her mind, she
seemed to dart at them as a last fast
hold, & she exclaimed with inexpressible
earnestness "O yes dear Lord, dear
Saviour let it be" On these words of
Holy writ she appeared to have cast
anchor to almost the end of her days
as she had done previously in the
finished work of Jesus.
Within three or four days of her happy
release from all earthly suffering,
the listening ear of her dear devoted


sister caught the responsive
sound of her "Yes" when that text
was quoted in supplication beside
her dying bed. before this her sister
asked her if she felt our Saviour near
to her at that time. her reply in an
emphatic "Yes" was a special
comfort to the now bereaved one.
Her loving gentle & peace-making
disposition of mind very greatly
endeared her to the choir of which
she was a member, & as a family
they will long feel a Vacancy which
nothing been the love of Christ can
fill.


