Depart Sep 29. 1819.
Br. Jno. Skelton has not furnished us with
materials for drawing up a Memoir of his
life wherefore we can only give a very brief
outline of it, & add what we know of him
from over own observation. He was born
at Roberttown Sept. 20th 1757, & when very
young removed with his Parents into this neigh
borhood. Subsequently he was put apprentice
to the Clothing business with Br Jno Willy
in the Sle Brns house at Mirfield. Being
thus brought up in the midst of the Brns Congn
he had early & strong drawings of Grace; & the
foundation for a happy life in communion
with his God & Saviour was laid in his youth.
In his 15th year he was recd into the Congn the
23d of Apr. 1772 & March 4th 1775 he partook
for the first time of the H. Comn. In passage
of time the management of the Sle Brns
Clothing business at Mirfield was committed
to him, which he conducted with faithfulness
& success. On Apr. 29th 1790 be entered into
the marriage state with the Sle Sr. Han. Brad
ley the now afflicted Widow. He then began
to carry on his trade on his own account
with much persevering diligence & with
the rich blessing of God. His marriage was
blessed with 2 Sons & 3 Daughters, all


of whom have proceeded their dear Parents
into eternity. Very severe was the trial
of their faith, when in the years 1813 & 1814
all their then surviving children were suc
cessively removed from hence, viz. John, Chrn
& Mary. Their bereavement, painful as it 
was, he could however after the first acute feel
ing of the chastening rod had subsided, regard
as a wise Providence of our dear Lord for
weaning him from earthly attachments, &
as a hint to spend the remainder of his days
free from all worldly entanglements, in
the enjoyment of the privilege of the Congn
& in more immediate preparation for his
latter end. He accordingly resigned his busi
ness, & in the year 1814 fixed his abode with
his dear partner, with whom he lived in
the most affectionate union, at Fairfield.
Having however from the habit of his life a
superior attachment to Fulneck, he took the
first opportunity that offered still before the
close of the same year, to settle here at Ful
neck. Here he approved himself as a genuine
Brother, who not only highly prized his lot
of grace among the flock of Jesus, & truly re
lished our excellent services & orders for the
daily nourishment of his soul, but also with
a disinterested & patriotic spirit, endeavored
to promote the good of the cause by all


means in his power. His spirit of sincere
participation in the ??? of the Congn
by prayer, by counsel & by libreal contri
bution was peculiarly valuable. His heart
evidently lived in the Lord, & his daily conver
sation testified that the Lord's cause lay
very near his heart. By the enlargement &
greater convenience of our Chapel galleries at
his private expence he has established a pleasing
memorial to himself. After the last Synod he
was chosen a member of the College of Over
seers, & at the same time appointed Curator of
the Sle Srs & in that office was so usefully active
that his loss will not be easily repaired. For some
time he labored under an internal disease, the nature
of which could not be accurately ascertained &
the progress of which was perhaps accelerated by
sympathy with the recent & severe illness of his
dear wife. Tho' he was since then mostly confined
to his house, & his bodily weakness increased rapidly,
he still attended the last funeral here, & after
wards made some very edifying remarks upon it.
The 20th Oct., when he was already quite confined
to his bed, he spoke largely & feelingly on his state of
mind, to this effect: When I review my course, I
see nothing but sin in myself, & if I have been not
served from outward transgressions it is thro'
mercy, my heart has been deceitful & very polluted
& I claim no greater favor, than with Mary Magda
len & the thief on the cross to lie at my Saviour's


feet, I have a spark of faith, but it is weak: for
my sins are many, & nothing can comfort me but
my Saviour's blood & merit. Many tears flowed,
while he made this confession, & his words were
interupted by frequent sobs. From worldly at
tachments he appeared so much concerned that
everything on earth was insipld to him, & the
communion of heart with the man of sorrows
was his only delight. Even the possibility of
preceding his dear wife into eternity now ap
peared a mercy to him. She was more than
once carried into his room & the afflicting nature
of that scene may by better conceived than de
scribed. The 21st his bodily pains were so ex
cising & his dissolution appeared so near, that
his seemingly departing spirit was in a prayer commanded to our Saviour,
& the usual blessing was imparted to him.
Yet he revived in some degrees, but cold wa
ter for several days was his only refresh
ment, when he entered with much feeling into
our Saviour's ejaculation on the cross: I thirst.
Last Tuesday he called upon all that saw
him, to pray for his speedy release, & amidst
excruciating pain prayed himself incessantly
that the Lord would soon take him to himself.
This favor was granted him after a very
uneasy night, at 1/2 past 5 in the morning
of the 27th Oct. at the age of 62 years &
2 months.


