The Life of the Widow John Skelton
who departed at Fulneck June 30th 1773
He has left us the following in Writing; I was born in
the Year 1703 in Lightlif in the Parish of Hallifax,
my Father & Mother belonged to the Church of England. My
Father died, when I was but a very little Boy, my Mother
brought me as till I was 8 Years old as carefully as she
could, afterwards I was put Prentice to a Norwich
Carrier, where I learned to be very wicked, but yet I had oft
Convictions, that I lived in quite a wrong Way, yet that
left me again. In my 25th year I married. When Mr Ingham
began to preach about in the Country Yorkshire, it came in
my Mind to go to hear him; but the first Time I got received
no Blessing from it. The next Night he was to preach at
Smithhouse, when but I had no thought of going till towards
Night, when I had a long Struggle whether I should go or not,
but at last I resolved to go, whatever might come out of it,
and that Night our Savr got fast Hold of my Heart, so that
I could after that have gone with Mr Ingham thro' the 
World; but yet I was at a Loss what would become of me
for I was in such a ruin'd State, & never acquainted Mr
Ingham that I was so miserable. I went constantly to the 
Preaching, & strove to be as stood as ever I could, in order to find Peace for my Heart, but all in 
vain, till about a Year after, when I got some Comfort;
yet for all that I thought I was not sure of being happy. I 
went to Speak with Mr Ingham about going to the Sacrament
in the Church of Engld, then he inquired how it was with me
& I told him my whole Mind, but he told me, it was not his Way
to advice People to go to the Sacrament, left it however to me
to do as I felt it in my Heatr so I went & received a 
Blessing thereby. When the Society was first begun 1741 I was
received into it. Then the Brn came to Smithhouse & I


went to hear them constantly, & one Night when the Meeting
was over Br Horne took me into his Room & ask'd me how it
was with me & I told him my whole Mind, & he spoke very
friendly with me, & told me, that I might go to all the Meetings
whence I had an Opportunity, of which I was very glad
One lvening I went to a meeting at Smith house, & going as
I was going home quite by myself, I felt something speaking
to me at my Heart. Thy sins are forgiven thee & ever since
I have been very happy. March 29 1746 my Wife went home, &
left me with 7 Childn, 5 Sons & 2 Daughters, & 1 Daughter was
gone before her. I had a Desire to be rec'd into the Congn
& Novr 13 1750 I was received, which was a great Blessing to
my Heart. June 21st 1751 I recd the Sacrament with the Brn the 
first Time, which was such a Blessing to me, as I cannot
express with Words. So I have lived in the Nearness of our
Savr ever since.
Thus far his own Words.
Nov 27 1758 he moved to Fulneck, where he spent his Time
in a Simple, childlike Manner, enjoying the Love & Peace of
God & was beloved by his Brn. He esteemed his Lot highly, to have
the Favour to live with a People of God taking simply every
Thing that occurred from the Hand of his dr Lord with to with whom
he Heart had a true Connexion. It was his great Concern
& his constant Prayer to our Lord, that his Children might all
obtain the same Grace & that those, who were connected with 
the Congn might truly make a good use of & prosper before our 
Lord; And this his Desire our Savr granted him in so far that
he saw the greatest Number of them connected with the Congn
for which he was very thankful & praised his Lord. Some
months ago his Strength began to fail, & he thought immediate-
ly that his stay here would no more be long. Our Savr began
to take him into his School & to shew him, wherein he was 
particularly still deficient. For some time ago something against
one of his Brn, with whom he lived, had crept into his Mind
he said: Tho' he had
spent many years in the
Congn & lived in the Enjoy
ment of the Love of God,
yet he found it a trying
Time for him & a School 
for his Heart
it cost him something to see it in the true Light; but our Savr melted his Heart & gave
him Grace to embrace the Br with many Tears of Love to the no small joy of those present.
From that Time the Peace of his Heart &


& beloved our Savr & in his Heart pointed at it & wanting
him to acknowledge it & give it up, yet selfrighteousness
had so much Power, that he thought he could never forgive it.
His Labourer had a lovely Bond with him upon that head, which
made him so uneasy, that he could not sleep the whole Night
when some of his sons saw him the next day, a strange Work
was perceived in his Mind & they were truly frighten'd at the 
Expressions he uttered upon that Occasion, & could not help shed
ding Tears. But it was amazing to see, how our Savr chang'd
his mind in an instant he called immediately for the Brother
fell about his Neck kiss'd him with many Tears, with all his & a disagreeableness
pressed him to his Heart, which caused such in Emotion in
the Beholders, that they wept for joy, as hardly being able to
believe what they saw with their Eyes. From that time such an
Alteration was observed in him, as if he had never not been the 
same Man. He loved the above Br with an unfeign'd Love & could
not bear, that any spoke a hard Word to him. His Peace of Heart
& his joy in the Lord was visible in his Countenance. He spoke
solidly with some of his Children, partly uttering telling them
where they were in the wrong & partly fearing, how it would go 
with one of them after his Departure. Once at being asked
by his Labourer how he did, he said: I have nothing to do but to re
joice in our Savr & to enjoy Him. He is very near to my Heart
whereby the Tears ran down. One Night our Savr manifested
his Love to his Heart in such a rich treasure, that he firmly
believed he should now be called home, & therefore caused his
Labourer to be called to when be could not express sufficiently
what our Savr had given him to enjoy But his Hour was not
so near as he expected. His sickness & was very painful pain increased, which
he bore with Patience & had still a great Deal to suffer, which made
him oft call upon the Lord soon to come & take him to himself.
His Heart remain'd during all that Time cleaving to our Savr
& he said the Peace of God never forsook him. Those Brn that
visited him felt exceeding well in his Company. At last on


the above one 30th of June at 8 at Night come the wel
come Hour, when he enter'd into his eternal Rest having
before obtain'd the Blessing of the Congn & his Choir; having He
spent in this Vale of Tears 70 Years.


