Brief Notices concerning the life and
happy departure from this world into eternity
of the Sgle Sr Marianne Spence who fell asleep
in Jesus on Monday Morning. June the 18th 1866
at Fulneck,
Our late Sister was born on October the 10th 1844 at the Mission
Station of Bethabara in the Island of Jamaica where her parents
laboured in the Lords Vineyard as esteemed and useful ser
vants of the Brethrens Church. From her very birth and more
especially on the day of her baptism on November the 24th she
was by them dedicated unto the Shepherd and Bishop of our
souls as His redeemed property with the fervant prayer that
He himself would tend and keep her as one of his sheep
This prayer was answered; for the Lord our Saviour was ever
mindful of her and through the days of her childhood youth
and to the very end of her sojourn here below manifestly led
her with his rod and staff. The blessed name of Jesus she
learnt to know and to love from her earliest years. Brought up
as a little child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord
under the parental roof she early learnt to love the house, and
the word of the Lord, and to pray. She was naturally not of a
robust constitution a weakness in her chest was perceptible
even in her youngest years tho' as far as I can hear she never
materially suffered from this cause at that time. In the
year 1851 her late father brought her and her older sister here
to Fulneck for education. She remained for 8 years a pupil
of the Ladies Boarding school here and throughout the whole
period approved herself a well conducted obedient, & attentive
scholar who by her gentleness, and amiable peaceful disposition
gained the love alike of her superiors and companions. Her
natural abilities although not of a very striking and superior
character were such as to render her aided by her diligence
and perseverance a very efficient scholar. Her health was
upon the whole pretty good during this period although she
never was very strong and her rapid growth and tall slender figure
often made her an object of notice to those who knew her age
This was particularly the case when she was received into
the Girls Choir in the year 1854. She was of a very placid
disposition and did not freely speak about herself and her
spiritual life, but it was very evident that she grew in grace
as well as in stature and with the lessons of secular wisdom
diligently learnt the lessons of heavenly wisdom that made
her wise unto salvation Those to whom her spiritual culture
was more especially entrusted often observed with much plea
sure her serious department and manifest relish for eternal
truths and heavenly pleasures. She ever meekly & thankfully
received the spiritual advice of her labouress towards whom


she always cherished feelings of grateful esteem and sincere
affection. In the autumn of 1854 she removed to the Ladies School
at Neuwied where she remained for two years. Here she enjoyed
the faithful and efficient instructions of Br Menzel preparatory,
to her confirmation at Easter 1861, on which occasion she surrendered
herself anew to the Lord her Saviour who had been the God of her
childhood imploring him to be with her throughout her youth
and even for ever.  From the School at Neuwied she proceeded
to Montmirail in autumn 1861, where after another years instruc
tions she completed her schooldays and at once was engaged
upon her return to England to enter into the ladies School at
Gomersal. She had previously at Montmirail been received into
the choir of Single Sisters, & now forthwith began to trade with
the talents her Saviour had entrusted to her keeping. For
above three years she faithfully discharged the important duties
of a teacher of the young. How her services were appreciated may
be best learnt from the following letters received by me from
Br K, and Sr R (--) At Easter this year she came home for a
few days to her mother.  A severe cold prevented her from re
turning immediately after the Easter vacation to her sphere of
duty. She hoped a few days rest and careful nursing at home
might restore her health. But when this hope was blighted her
desire was to return upon her duties at any rate at the middle
of the quarter, and when this also was denied her, she at first
greatly felt her inability to return to her post where she was
so happy and so beloved. But as she had been a willing and
useful teacher, she now once again was willing to be an attentive
and obedient scholar. The Lord wished her to learn how to give
up all for Him and die happily.-- It was truly edifying to
witness, the perfect resignation with which our dear Sister
acquiesced in the will of the Lord and how calmly and content
edly she submitted her wishes and her will to his over ruling
gracious providence. It was not the natural placidity of her
temper nor apathy which enabled her thus to be resigned and
quiet. For she herself keenly felt the pang of seperation from
her beloved mother and other dear relatives and friends, and her
affectionate disposition made her anticipate the grief her mother
would have to endure by her early removal. But she knew her
Saviour, who had given her a heart to know him, that He is the
Lord and she believed that He did all things well she trusted
Him and therefore could confidently commit herself and her
dear friends into this most faithful hands. It soon became mani
fest that rapid consumption would speedily terminate her course
through life, and as the complaint gained ground from week to
week, she ripened more and more for heaven and eternal glory.
She bore her sufferings with exemplary patience, her deafness
occasionally caused the sorrow casting a momentary gloom over


her bright hopes of eternal joys. In general her mind was kept
in perfect peace stayed upon the Lord. Whenever asked respecting
the ground of her hope, or her prospects for eternity, she expressed sim
ple childlike confidence in her beloved Saviour. He was near to her
indeed even Christ in her, the hope of glory. There was no trium
phant rejoicing in her last illness and death, but there was the work
of righteousness, peace, and there was the effect of righteousness, even
quietness and assurance for ever, and there was joy, the joy unspeak
able and full of glory. Her own set in the serene horizon of God's love
after a calm bright day of genial summer. We do not here dwell
at length upon those utterances of her last days and hours, which
are the sacred property of her sorrowing mother and will no doubt
cheer her often in the remembrance of the past when the loss of
her beloved child would otherwise overwhelm her with grief
But we magnify the grace of God that enabled our late Sister every
to desire to depart and be with Christ which is far better than the
possession and enjoyment of all temporal treasures here below.
Our Saviour was very gracious unto her sparing her the conflict of
a painful separation of soul and body.-- She literally fell asleep in
Jesus, and slept herself away into eternity. Her ransomed spirit
fled from the frail tabernacle, early on Monday morning last; to join
the spirits of just men made perfect Her end was peace. Her age
was 21 years 8 months, and 8 days.
Christs sufferings have delivered her
from misery, woe, and death
His word Tis finished proved to be
The triumph of her faith.
Happy soul thy days are ended
All thy mourning days below
thou by angel guards attended
Dids't to Jesus presence go
Trusting on thy Saviours merits
Thou hast seen thy Lord above
Waiting to receive thy spirit
Reaching out a crown of love
For the joy He set before thee
Thou didst bear a moments pain
Die to live a life of glory;
Suffer, with, thy Lord to reign
Fulneck June 21st 1866


