The Course of Life of the Married Sistr.
Grace Stansfield
who went home May
23d. 1770
She gave the following Account of herself
I was born March 17. 1727 at New House in
the Parish of Halifax; & was brought up in the
Principles of the
Church of England. As a Girl I heard Br Spangen
berg sometimes at New-House, but my Father
being prejudiced against the Brethren warned
me against them and as I grow older I became
so averse & bitter against them that afterwards
when I had lived 17 Years in Pudsey and was
married to my Husband Jno. Stansfield who
and been among the Brethren, I insisted on it
that he should not go to Fullneck, for I believd
them to be Papists and was so bitter against
them that I could have drowned them in the
Sea with much Eagerness. As to myself I en
tirely depended on Religious Duties instead
of our Savrs Merits & Blood shed for Sinners,
I often reason'd with my Husband against what
he discoursed with me of the atoning Blood of
Jesus Christ shed for undone Sinners, but this my
Husbands Talk many Times confounded me &
sometimes brought me into Tears. A while after
I bore a Son which our Saviour soon took home
to Himself. This brought me into Concern about
my Soul, and I went on Easter Sunday to Full
neck and heard Br Latrobe preach, my Heart


broke and vented itself in many Tears the whole
Time of the Preaching, while my Saviours
Blood fell so upon my Heart on this important
Day as I can never express. I could not be satis
fied till I went to speak with Br Latrobe
but when I came to him, my Heart was so
melted with a Feeling of my Saviours Near
ness that I could scarce speak a Word for Tears.
This made me reflect on what I had thought
& spoken against the Brethren aforetime,
and this makes me still blush and stand a-
shamed at His thro bor'd feet on account of
all my sinfull Thoughts & Words  against
his dear People and I could not then be
satisfied till I went to Sisr. Charlesworth
and declared my whole Heart, and it proved
a Blessing to me. When my Husbands Sis
ter lay sick in the Choir House I frequent
ly visited her & so got acquainted with some
of the single Sisters, and was astonishd to
see their Love to each other & some of them
shewed Love to me so that I could not forbear
loving them. Some time after 2 Single Sisters
came to visit me and I recieved them with
much Joy and our Discourse together caused
my Eyes to run over with Tears and Love Shame
to think that our Savr should send them to
visit such a poor sinfull Worm as me. In


In August 1767 I was reciev'd into the Society
which prov'd a real Blessing to my Heart. I
found I was a poor sinfull Wretch who had No
thing to rely on but his dear Blood and when
Br & Sisr Greening visited me twas a real
Delight to me to speak of our Saviour with
them. In Febry. 1769 Our Savr. gave me a little
Girl. I thought then I should go soon home
but I grew better and my Savr. still led me his poor
Blood-bought Child, and my Desire was to be an obe
dient Child and to be made conformable to his Death
In October I became so sickly that I perceiv'd I should
go into my Savrs. Arms. So far her own account
She was beloved by her Neighbours as a quiet & friend
orderly Person and they shew'd her much Kind
ness in her long Sickness. Soon after her grow
ing worse in October she testified to her Brother
in Law and to others her Thought and Desire
of going into her Savrs. Arms, expressing thereby
her Gratitude & Love towards her Redeemer with Tears
of Abasement. amidst her Weakness & Poverty
in outward Matters, she often said to her Husband
We two poor vile Sinners have it much better
than our dear Savr had it in this World, He
had not where to lay his Head. altho she lived
in agreeable Harmony with her Husband yet
her Desire was as she often said to go home to her
eternal Husband where would be nothing but
Joy Praise & singing Hallelujah to the Lamb


that was slain. According to her earnest
Longing our Savr granted her to be recieved
into the Congregation in her Sick Room on Febr. 16th and she
declared afterwards that she had never before
experienced such a Day of Grace, and testified
her Joy over our dear Saviour and his Blood
to the Single Sistrs and others who visited her,
that He was very gracious & faithfull to her, that
she felt him often near. She was often heard to
say "my dearest Savr come soon and make no
long Tarrying! how happy shall I be when I
sit at thy Feet! Oh I shall be happy in kissing
thy dear Wounds! She uttered an ardent Longing
to enjoy the Holy Communion, and this was also
granted to her & she enjoy'd it twice during
her Sickness with a longing and thankfull
Heart. Once, when she had been conversing with
her Husband about our Savrs. coming to fetch her,
she said: O Dearest Savr.! do thou come & see what is
between Thee & me, and do Thou wash me in they own Blood
from all what is disagreeable to thy Heart. She was
for the most part still yet sometimes said to her Sistr.
ah! when will my Savr come for me! and towards the last
she said with much Joy: ah! now I am working up my
last, I shall soon kiss his Hands & Feet. In this happy
Expectation her redeemed & reconciled Soul went to
Him whom she loved on May 23 at night in the 44th
Year of her Age while her Husband sung for her
Thy Broken Eyes appear in hers! ye Pale Lips kiss
her on the Heart with a very good Feeling of our
dear Lords gracious Nearness.


