Depd Aug. 3d 1761
Edmund Tattersalls Course of Life, the Part of which was noted
down from his own Mouth 
I was born (in Heyroid, Worley Township) in ye Parish of Hallifax 5/16 Oct. 1691
(and baptized in my fathers house by a Church Minister)
My Father departed this Life when I was 6 Years old. My Mother
took the Tuition of me, because of a small Estate which I had to expect.
I was sent to School till I was 10 Years old & learnd to read & write
Afterwards I was put out Apprentice to a Clothier for 10 Years, and saw
and heard nothing but wickedness & Irreligion. Being free from my
Prenticeship I married and followed the Worsted Trade and lead a 
loose Life of Idleness and Drunkiness & The People & Servants which I 
employed proved bad and unfaithfull, & I was forced to give up Busi-
ness, designing to go to ye Isle of Man, to a Brother in Law & there to
was follow my Trade afresh, was already on Board the Vessel, but was three 2 times
brought back because of the Rebellion in England at that time. After the
Battle at Preston I came back again & settled in Hallifax & wove
resolved to break of from my former wicked Course and to become re-
ligious. I had strong Convictions in my Mind & prayed often, but without
understanding. Once I came amongst some Soldiers who wanted
being
to trick me putting money into my pocket, but I a desperate
Fellow, got off from them. Half a Year after I went as a Volunteer among
the Kings Dragoons left my wife and Childrn, but staid only 13 weeks
and then got my Discharge again. Two Years after I listed in ye
same Reigment & staid again no longer then 13 weeks, because I saw so much wicked
ness & got at length my Dismission, which I desired. I returned to
my wife and Children and followed my Trade weaving in Hallifax. It was
at this time that I earnestly sought to become religious, went
every Month to the Communiun in the Church & entred into a So
ciety with some Churchmen who in principles were Calvinists
with them I continued till I was 49 Years old. At that time I was
seized with a violent fever & during that Sickness I found that 
I was not in a State of being saved Salvation, I had not that Satisfaction
and rest, which I thought I had. I recognized from that Illess
and resolved to join no Party, untill I was better Satisfied in
my Soul. When the Brn came to keep Meetings at the Worlds End


near Hallifax I went to hear them, liked them well, desired also to
be in their Society, which was granted the 21 Jan.
Amongst the Brethren and in their Preaching I found that wch
I wanted I loved them exceedingly, because I was convinced
that ye Lord was with them, I spared no time nor pain to
go to hear them and to accompany them from place to
place & discoursed with them, being mostly concerned for abt points
of doctrine. My wife would not go with me at first, because
she had not much hopes, that I would continue, being so
cross & peevish with her, for I was of a proud nature and want-
ted to be Something.
From that the time that he was joined be ye Brn our Savrs Word con-
cerning his Death & Passion often reached his heart, but his
pride & seeking to fill his head with Knowledge long stifled his our
dr Savr Work long; he was also of a very talkative Disposition 
and preached to every one in his family & to others, so that
to became burdensome to his wife and Child: & to every body
besides whereby he did had hurt to himself and others
they saw that his Spirit & conversation was not agreeing.
His Labourers told him for of it and he was glad and thank-
full for their reproofs but he could not help himself &c. He
often melted into Tears and confessed his follies to the Brn
His heart grew more and more attached to the wounded Savr & he
felt himself overcome by his Dying Love, wished & earnsstly
entreated to be under the special Care of the Br & to be in a
Member of the Congrn which also was granted on the 13 Aug
1749. as Gracehill Lambs Hill he was exceeding glad of it, delighted to
come in coming to the Meetings, and in Conversation with to converse with the Brn
and went on chearfully & happy, was beloved much by the Brn
and loved them as our Savrs peculiar chosen Inheritance
He was made a Partaker of the holy Comunion June 17th 1750
He hasten These many Years he was troubled these many Yrs with an Asthmatic Disorder


which encreased more & more, so that it became very troublesome to
him to walk & attend the Meetings. Hewever as long as he could
creep he would not stay away miss coming for said he nothing is such a
Comfort for my heart Soul and Body than as hear of my of cruci-
fied Lamb and to be in fellowship with my dr Brn. The holy
Sacrament was to him the highest Festival, which if he could help he 
would never miss. He borrowd last March was a twelve month a Galloway to
come to Wike, but so was a good while after so sore in his Limbs, that
he could come no more. Aug the 4 he was the last time at the
Starary in Hallifax at the Quarterly Meeting & received at night his Share
with some others in the holy Sacramt, he tried Sept 2 to come
once more, but was obliged on acct of Illness to go home again
and from that time his Disorder turnd into a Dropsy his Legs be-
gan to swell & at last to break & run wch continued ever since. He could not
lie in Bed, but sat in a Choir by ye fire Side. Our dr & gracious
Savr took him now into a peculiar school, which was beneficial to his heart, but
Dec 16 last Yr when I was with him and the newly published Christian Magazin
of a man was mentioned he said. I look upon Mount Olive & Calvary with
my Lord did penance for me and the rest of Man all mankind & hung as a Lamb
on the Cross wounded all over to be the best Magazin and Storehouse
of for a Christian, I want to know nothing but Him in his dying form
He was very glad whenever Brn came to see him, & this was done as 
often as it could be. Febr. Last Febr. he complained much of his Pain
& Distress, in Body, but above all a Dryness in his heart & that he had
not a feeling Sense of the Saviours precious Nearness, and wept fore
on account of his Impatience and Peevishness. March 10 he kept an 
open hearted Band with me and told me, that our Savr was so gra-
cious as to help him, in his great outward Poverty, he was ashamed
more of himself than he was did not more relying more upon him & was not thankfull
to him enough for all the manifest Proofs of his Loving heart. He
fell sometimes into reasoning thoughts that he was a Burden to every
one & wished that our Savr might grant him to be dissolved his dissolution.
I told him, that all these things wch he complaind of arose from one cause
He should speak thoroughly with our dr Savr abt the state of his heart and beg a drop
of his ll healing Blood for his Soul, & that the Spirit of Jesus shd take full Possession


of his heart and that he shd make a blessed use of this blessed Passion Season. His
wife had been his Nurse and dressed his running Legs till the 27 th 
of April when she by a Paralysis of the ?? was disabled & confined to this
bed, which made his case still nore pitiable & distressed. He
could have no relief granted from the Parish, but what some chari-
table persons did in consideration of the greatest poverty to which they
were reduced to. They were visited at least every fortnight, &
many an openhearted Conversation kept with them both, which
proved always a Blessing & Comfort to them, especially June 23
& July 7, when they both after having they had been spoken with fully,
received their share in the holy Comuni Sacrament on their Sick-
bed. I was these several months quite pleased with the State of
his heart, he grew weaker & weaker in Body, his Legs began
to heal in part and our dr Saviour made a blessed End of all
his Trouble Grief & Woes by taking him home to himself Aug.
the 3d in the forenoon at 11 ocl. when the Text was Lazarus
our friend Sleepeth. He had groaned in his dying Tabernacle
69 Years 10 Months & 17 days. His Corpse had a lovely, sweet
aspect bespeaking the happy sleep & Rest wch he had entered into.


