The Course of life of the S. Sisr. Hannah Taylor
She was Born Feb 16. 1740. at Wyke & brought up by her
Parents, who sent Her to one of the Brn Schools, viz to Martha
Haley, where she enjoy'd the Childrens Meetings to a blessing
for her Heart, being of a pensive turn caus'd her often even
while Young, very Serious reflections concerning herself, in
which case She turn'd to our Sav.r & found in him her only
Comfort. In the Yr 1767. She went to live with Br &
Sisr Zander, & seved them with all faithfulness, till Sr Zander
went home, when She Obtain'd permission to move the Srs
Oeconomy at Gumersal, Her She soon gain'd the Love of the
Srs, but her natural reserved Dissposition caus'd her & others
Some pain in the begining, which however soon wore of,
as she got more freedom & could confidently speak her hearts
Situation Just as it was! It was very perceptable that the
holy Ghost led Her into a deeper Knowledge of her own 
depravity, which together with her Natural Timours mind,
made her often express a doubtful Consern, lest she shou'd not
continue to the End, She had the Grace to Cleave to our Savr
in these Circumstances, & long'd Ardently for a nearer Connextion
with him & his people by Reception in to the Congn which was
granted Her April 20th 1772 to her great Joy March 20th 1773 She
had the favour to be the first time Spectator at the holy Commn. & as
it was clear to her that She was in a decline, her only desire was
now to obtain the end of all her wishes
Viz


Namely to be a perticipant of the Body & Blood of Christ, in the
holy Sacrement, for Her Sickness prov'd a real Searching time
to her, during which She kept many Openhearted bands
with Her Choir Labroures, & it was manifest that our Dr Savr
was preparing her for himself, of which She was very Sensible
desiring only to be fitted here for his Eternal Embraces,
Her longing desire for the Holy Sacrament was granted on her Sickbed, a few days
before her Departure during a Blessed feeling to all who were
present, She lay very still for some time, in a deep enjoyment
of this great grace! Expressing her thankfulness that she had now
enjoy'd all she wished for in this World, & now only waited for the
Last Kiss from his pale Lips. The last Night She desir'd the
Sisters might be call'd up, when She took a tender leave of them
Saying O my dear Sisrs if I was but able to tell you what I enjoy'd
If I had but know before what a Savr he is to poor needy Sinners,
Once more let me entreat God to beleave in him! She cou'd not
Express the tender Gratitude of her Heart Sufficiantly to those
arround her, but as a truly Enamor'd Heart look'd out with longing
for the happy moment, when her Belov'd wou'd Receive her into
his Arms, desiring the Srs to join in her petition, that He
might soon come & take her to him self, which he accordingly
did on May 18 1773. in the 33 Year of her Age. Accompaied with
the Blessing of her Choir & a Sensible feeling of the nearess of her
unseen friend & Bridegroom, with whome She now rests in Peace.


