The Course of with of the S. Sister Mary Taylor who Departed
to our Savior at Fulnec Febr 21 1790
I was Born at Moberly in the County of Cheshire July th 1745
and Baptized in the Church of England. In my Childrens
Years I felt some dawnings of Grace in my heart, but did know
how to value it rightly. In my 10 th Year my Father took me
with Him to hear the Brn, and I not a deep impression of our
Saviors love in my heart, which remained with me for some
Time. But in my 14 th Year I began to see my lost Condition
which soon brought me into dispair, and Satan got such
power over me, that I believed there was no God, or if there
was I had no right to Him & I thought Hell its self could
not contain more misery, than I found dwelt in me, so I
wished I had never been Born, and that I had no immortale
Soul to live forever; but Since I had, wish'd that it might
be distroyed, and not remain inthe number of those Souls
that was immortal. This led me to think wether or no there
was a God who had made me & who cou'd distroy my Soul: And
I conclnded that there was a God, & that he could save some that
believed on Him. But I had no faith, and thought I must be
lost. In this Situation I went to hear a Brother preach, the Text
was at the Time of Ignorance God winketh at, but now
Commandeth all Men every where to repent. I thought
if I had but been Ignorant, then I might have hopes.
but I have been told so often of our dear Savior, and what he


had done & fuffered for poor Sinners, how often has my Father
entreated me to go alone and to pray to my Maker & Redeemer
that He wood have mercy upon my Soul, but I had refulod it.
All this was set before my heart & Eyes in a clear light. But
my distress I could tell to no one, and kept my misery to myself
for I thought no one was as bad as I felt myself to be.
In my 17 th Year I went again to hear the Brn preach
and the Text was a great Comfort to my distressed Soul,
It was the following He which hath begun a Good Work in
you, will perform it untill the Day of Jesus Chriest, It
was as if my dear Savior said to me, this is my work. Give
thine Heart to me & I will give the rest from thy Labour
Oh how did my Soul rejoice that she Lord could have mercy
upon me.  In the Year 1762 I moved with my Father
&  Mother to be near the Congn in Duckenfield, where I
soon got a desire to live inthe Choirhouse, and Obtained
leave in the Year following to my great Joy. But I must
confess that I spent my Time there very indifferently &
did not seek in ernest to know my dear Saviors aim with me
but was satisfied with some dawnings of his Grace.
Octr 23. 1763 I had the favor to be rec'd into the Congn
from this Time I fell into a legal self working way
striving in my own Spirit & strength to become good, but
in vain. Thus I spent 4 Years in this miserable self


righteous working way of my own, Sometimes I was weany and
tired out almost, but still could not leave it off. Till in
the Year 1767, when I had the grace to become a Condidate
for the Holy Comuinion. this gave me acdearer imight into
myself than I had ever had before. I now found that all my
self working was like a Cob web, & all my self nighteousness
was as felthy, & that Verse was applicable to my condition.
A Garment I myself had gained.
A Staff I had whereon I lean'd
Which fell when tryed from out my hand
My Robe I buent it to a brand.
I had alonging desire to become a Partaker of the highest Good
but was very timoaroay about it. However my dr Savior
shewed me the way that as a poor Sinner I must go and
venture upon his mercy. March the 21st 1760 on Maunday
Thursday I partook for the first Time of the Highest Good
in the Holy Sacrament, during which I got a deep impress.
ion of our Saviours sufferings & Death, & it was a time
of real Blessing to me which I hope never to forget; I went
on in a still and happy Course for near a Year, when my Father
& Mother & Brothers agreed to fold get me away from the Brn
by telling me that they were a deceitful People and that I
was already deceived, but I could not believe them; but
as their designs where frustrated, thay contrived a scheme
to get meto my Father House by a message that if I would
see my Father a Mother alive I must come immeadsately


but it was as entirely a Falshood & deceit. "I however went
to see her I found her rather poorly but no ways danger-
ously Ill, now sheirintentions was to keep me, and
when I attempted to go back again, they would not suffer
me to go & when I set off they fetched me bact, and 
forced me to stay against my will & at night locked
me in my chamber, & desired the neighbours to watch
me least I should leave the House, this continued a whole
week before I could make my escape. At last I found
an Oppertunity to get off. on a Dark night, I went
around about way for Duckenfield, that they might
not ovortakeme if they pursued me. But my two
Brothers & two other Men, got to Duckenfield before
me and placed them selves in the roads that led to the
S Srs House, so that I could not get home without meet
ing some of them. my Brother happined to be in the
road where I had to pass. He therefore stoped me and
called the others to assist Him, they intended to take
me back by force, but being near the Srs House, I cried 
as loud as I could, that they might hear me and come
to my assistance, which they did, and came to see
the reason of my cries, and one ofthem asked me if I
would go back with the Men or not, I answered that


I would not return with them they then endeavoured to get
me at liberty, but one of the Sisters was knocked down by
one of them, which made them fight in good ernest,
and the Srs being almost come out, at length prevailed
& I escap'd their hands, tho' I was much bruis'd &
by the hard usage I had undergone. I was thankful
to my dear Savior, that I could be at rest again in my
Choir House, but my Stay in Duckinfield was not long
for I wrote to my Brother in Fulneck of what had
happened to me, and He spoke to the Brn there about
me, wishing thinking that it would be better if I re-
moved to some other Congregation, this was taken into
consideration, and I Obtained leave to live in Fulnec,
accordingly on March the 21 st 1769 I went came to live in the
Choir House here, where I was thankful to be, altho
onulwardly I had it harder to procure a Maintenance
than in Duckenfield, but I believe that the Lord will
make it answer a good and at last. thus far her own
Account.


