Mary Elizabeth Thornton
was born on the 16th of December
1831 in the little village of Tong
At the age of about four years the
learned to read with great facility,
and indeed began early to give indi
cations of an ardent thirst for knowledge
and intense delight in reading.
Half a year afterwards her parents
removed to Fulnec, but previously
to that she had lodged there with
some several kind friends, that she might
have the benefit of the day schools.
For seven years she remained there,


though not attending school regularly, as
her mother required her assistance in
the household duties.
The pleasure she seemed to feel in her
studies while at school, and the
progress she made during that
short period, together with her affec
tion for teachers & companions, were
gratifying proofs to her dear parents
that she was under the fixed influ
ence of correct principles, in endea
vouring to redeem the time she
felt of so great value.
In her 16th year she went to
Bootle where she remained for
months, but owing to her health
& the removal of the family to


London she was obliged to return
home. While there the enjoyed
the Society of a Christian minister
of the established Church, of whom
she often spoke & from those conver
aations ahe derived great benefit.
Her health improving, she went to
Lancashire, but as in the course
of a few months, a change seemed
desirable both by her parents &
Br Miller, the latter took her
into his own house, where she
remained about a year & nine
months.
During her stay in Salem, she
experienced much blessing, by
occasion of her reception into the
Church (of Christ) by the rite


of confirmation.
Though we were not with her at the
time, the remembrance she left be
hind her with a few friends, leads us
to believe that there existed a feeling
of Christian fellowship between her
and the little flock in Salem, with
which she was connected, which affords a
pleasing cecollection to her sorrowing
relations.
Owing to circumstances her return
home was thought desirable by her
parents, she having a large
family also required her assistance
Beautiful instances might be
given of her now chastened delight
in the society of her parents &
friends, and her deep solitude


for the wellfare of her brothers &
sisters. The Sabbath services
were enjoyed with a keener relish,
never had home been so sweet, or did the
wishes of her parents meet with
such a warm response, as at this time,
for it was her delight, to do everything
in her power to assist them in their
various duties, as long as her
health would permit.
In December 1853 she took
violent cold &  cough, which never
left her, but gradually brought
to the lingering diseaze which
terminated her life
Owing to the particular nature of her
complaint, she always entertained the
hope that she was better which her


friends were always glad to admit,
as they wished it to be so, as much
as she herself did. But finding
it was the Lords will that she should
not be restored, it was pleasing to
see her calm resignation to Him,
who she said "did all things well."
She was many times asked during her
illness, if she could resign herself to
the Lords will, whether He should
take her or restore her, but she
always replied that she tried to do
so, & being naturally of a reserved
disposition, her friends took it for
granted that she did so, and her
calm & happy death afforded a
sufficient proof. A few evenings


before her departure, her little
brother having gone in to bid her
good night, she asked him if he
prayed to our Savior to take her to
himself, when he innocently replied
"yes," and she appeared quite pleased
that he did so.
The day before she died her father
read the texts, and the passage for
the day, from Bogatzky's Golden
Treasury, and the verses attached to
them were "Let me but hear my
Savior say, - Strength shall be
equal to thy day, - Then I re
joice in deep distress, - Leaning
on all sufficient grace -
I glory infirmity, - That
Christ's own power may rest on me,


When I am week, then I am strong.
Grace is my shield & Christ my song.
On hearing these, she exclaimed,
Oh! that is enough for me!
On the day she died her brothers &
sisters were called into her room
at her request, that she might
take leave of them which she did
in a manner that will not easily
be chased from their memory.
A short time before she expired, she
requested her friends to sing for her
the hymn, "For ever with the Lord"
Being very anxious to have it sung,
she began herself & joined in the
singing of the whole hymn as well
as she was able. When it was con
cluded, she wished the evening


hymn to be sung during which she
sank into unconscious stumber, and
we believe sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus.
From this brief narrative drawn up
by her relations it is evident that our
late Sister was acquainted with our Savr
& that the instructions she received in
Childhood were blessed to her soul.
The time of her residence in Salem espec
ially in the family of Br & Sr Miller was
in important period of her life for then
the Lord opened her heart that she
attended to the things that make for our
peace. On her return home about
4 years ago, and for some time after,
she showed an humble teachable spirit
and an eager desire for spiritual conversation.


Latterly tho' her conduct was always
correct, she did not evince the same
openheartedness, and that desire after
spiritual food, which caused an anxious
fear on her account, that a spiritual
decline had taken place, and that the
world was drawing her aside from the
simplicity of Christ.
Of this she herself spoke in the latter
days of her life, and sorrowed over the
sad effects of remisness in watchfulness
& prayer.
This together with her naturally very
reserved disposition, made it difficult
at first to draw her out into conver
sation on the state of her heart.
She clung to life and from the flattering
nature of her complaint, she cherished
the hope of recovery till within a few
weeks of her dissolution, ever after it
was apparent to her friends from her
increasing weakness that she would not


recover.
Latterly she shared a greater desire
after spiritual conversation & and reading
and desired that prayer should be offered
up in her room. Once she said, "I often
reflect on what you day, tho' I cannot
express my feelings, & when I lift my
heart up to our Savior, he meets me."
On Saturday 7th she expressed
a strong desire once more to enjoy the
holy Communion and said "now I
have given up the hope of being able to
go to Chapel & I should feel it a favour
to have it administered in my room."
On that occasion she spoke freely
of the state of her heart, and expressed
a wish that any the most searching
question should be put to her, as she felt
the great importance of being prepared
What she said, confirmed the hope


we had entertained, that Jesus was not an
unknown Saviour to her - and, that the
way of peace & happiness thro' faith in his
blood, was one in which she had walked.
Yet a mist seemed to hang over her path 
and she had not a cheerful bright prospect.
Knowing that she had forsaken the Lord &
grieved his holy Spirit, she felt confused &
afraid. The confidence of faith
had left her, & like many others she was
looking for the evidences of her justifications
in her own feelings, and expecting to see
these before she could lay hold of the hope
of the Gospel. Looking for the fruits be
fore the branch was grafted into the vine
or the tree planted.
Being directed to turn to our Saviour
just as she felt and assured of his mercy &
readiness to forgive & to heal our backslidings
her mind was much comforted. The texts
of Scripture that were repeated were blessed


by the holy spirit to her soul. These
were the words of Jesus, I am the resurrection
& the life he that believeth in me, etc
and I am he that liveth & was dead and
behold I am etc and I have set
before thee an open door etc.
These texts and this conversation she referred
to several times in the following week and
wished the texts to be read.
On Sunday 8th the H. Comn was
administered to her & the family in presence
of a  few friends. It proved a great re
freshment to her and tho' the service
had as we feared, exhausted her, yet she was
able to take the air in the evening her
dear father driving her out in a gig.
But this proved the last time of her leaving
the sick chamber. The following
night she became much worse, difficulty
of breathing came on, & she had a restless
night. But the following day she was
cheerful & composed and spoke with joy


of the prospect of going home  saying
"I have no fear. I can give all up Jesus
will receive me."
On Tuesday however her mind was
not so composed, and what she said led us
to see, that the H. Ghost was deepening
his own work on her heart, probing the
wounds and showing her more of her
own vileness, that he might thus prepare
her for richer displays of the Grace of Jesus.
On Friday morning the writer of
this witnessed a scene of the most solemn
& affecting nature. The dear patient felt
that the time of her departure was
drawing nigh and desired to see &
take leave of all the family.
With composure of mind she gave each of
her brothers & sisters words of admonition,
that retrust will not be lost or forgotten.
Earnestly did she exhort them to love our
Saviour to walk in his ways, that they


might all meet again in heaven.
After this with upfolded hands, she com
mended them in prayer to our Saviour and
was heard in broken accents saying "dear
Savior bless them" bless all and bless all
my kind friends who have been so kind to
me bless them O Jesus!"
It was good to be there for the
presence of Jesus was powerfully felt
of this the dear patient testified saying
"I feel his nearness. I am his he is mine
he will not leave me."
At her request we then sung a few verses
in which she joined, expressive of the
happiness of the redeemed around the
throne. And having in prayer commended
her departing spirit of Jesus the blessing
the Lord has imparted to her she joined
in the singing of the words "In the name


of Jesus. Amen!
In the afterpart of the day she revived a
little till about 11 O'Clock at night
when a change was perceptible.
She requested that some verse might
be sung & selected them herself and
was so collected & interested in the service,
that once the began the tune, and corrected
her dear father who had read a word
wrong. The concluding verses of the
hymn sung were we believe expressive
of the state of her mind, and of the bliss
ha she now enjoys.
125 Ps - v  7- 10
"For ever with the Lord!" etc.


