The little Girl Charlotte Traneker
departed happily to the Lord 17th. Febry 1809.
In Justice to the memory of this beloved Child, we
cant omit noting down a for remarks concerning her
course thro' time 
She was born at Duckenfield, in Cheshire o July 1st
1799, where her Parents at that time resided; - but in the
course of her of 1st Year removed with them to Gomersall, her
Father receiving an appointment to be Minister of that
Congregation:- before she had attained her second year, her
dear mother was removed from this earthly stage by means
of a Fever. (Altho' her abode in that Congregation had been
of short duration, her memory is still dear to those who were
conversant with her;- her departure was deeply regreted, as
her amiable disposition, her humble walk, and Child-
like confidence in Her Lord and Saviour, rendered her a
useful Handmaid in that part of our Lords Vineyard,
in which she labor'd with Zeal and Faithfulness.)
Upon this occasion, the dear subject of this memoir
was removed to Fulneck to her much respected Grand-
father. Br George Traneker, where she was cared for &
nursed with maternal care by for Aunt, to whom she
was tenderly attached.


She afterwards was removed to her Parents at Gomersall,
upon her Father entering again into the married state:- du
ring her Infancy, she was a pleasing, and amiable, Child
and engaged the affection of all who attended her. She 
removed to the school at Fulneck when Six years of age,
and soon rendered herself a pleasing Companion amongst
the Children, and a good, and Obedient Child to her Teach-
er, taking delight to learn whatever her age and capacity
were adequate to;- she likewise discovered talents beyond
her years, being uncommonly attentive and industrious
in the little occupations in which she engaged;- and had
it pleased the Lord to spare her to us, we had every rea
son to expect, that her abilities would have rendered her
useful in her sphere of life: But our gracious Saviour
marked her for his own, and had already prepared her ten-
der mind for those more more substantial Joys, to which it
her been his Will to translate her and which she now
so fully possess. From her Infancy she discovered
a tender feeling of the love of Jesus in her Heart, and when
spoken to of his great love to Children, she listened with
attention and delight.
As she advanced in years, she also attained to more
solid reflections, and would frequently express herself in a
pleasing manner when spoken to concerning our Savi-
ours great love to Children, and tho' young, she was


sensible that she was by nature a sinful Child; but
observed that she frequently pray'd to our Saviour, and
loved him above all things, saying that his love to her
was beyond that of her dear Parents. 
She took delight in reading; particularly Hymns, and
those subjects which treated of divine things; and could
repeat many Poetical piece in a pleasing manner:- her
constitution from her Infancy was tender and delicate
tho' no ideas were entertained that this precious Blos
som would fade at such an early period.
About Easter 1808 She came over to Gomersall to
visit her Aunt, her state of Health at that time appeared
precarious, and very soon consumptive symptoms caused
serious apprehensions of what eventually came to pass. 
In Octr her dear Father came to see her, this afforded
her unspeakable joy, as she was tenderly attached to Him, 
her encreasing weakness gave him every reason to fear
this would be last time that he would see this his
beloved Child:- every medical Assistance was afforded, and
no means were wanting to reestablish her declining
Health; but our Lords views were otherwise, and he was
preparing this tender plant for his Heavenly Kingdom.
Being occasionly asked, whether (as she continued
so weak) she had my idea that she might not recover, she
observed, that she would wish, if our Saviour pleased, to


get better, having the wish and hope to go to Plymouth
Dock to her Parents, the idea of which frequently animated
her much. About Christmas being very poorly, she said, I
begin to think that I shall not recover, and were I to
live I might always be sickly, and that would be very
painful; and therefore it perhaps would be better for me
to go to our Savr. She was tenderly admonished to be 
resigned to his will, and afterwards when spoken to on
the subject, it was very evident that the Holy Spirit was at
work upon her Heart preparing her for that awful event
which was now so apparently approaching:- She became
daily more resigned, and longed for that period when every
pain and sorrow would flee away, and spoke with compo
sure & delight on the Happiness she would enjoy in be
holding in the realms above her dear Mother and Grandfather
whom she frequently mentioned. She was confined to her
sick room about three weeks, frequently wishing to see
some of her little Companions, and the Teachers of Gomer
sall School, who visited her with Affectionate attention and
kindness.
She also was much attached to her Fulneck Friends, of
whom she frequently spoke. she frequently expressed her
gratitude for the care and attention shown to her in turns
that quite exceeded what might have been expected from a
Child of her Years, and observed that had she been the Child


of a Nobleman, she should not have had perhaps so much
attention shown her;- and might have been left to those
compelled to nurse her, who had not that affection which
she felt, from those about her and often said, How thank
ful I am, my dear Aunt, that you care so kindly for me. 
She also expressed the greatest gratitude towards her
kind Doctor who, she said, was like a Father to her.
A week previous to her happy departure she was
seized with a paroxism which made it appear as if her end
was approaching. Br. Oxley was requested to come, and as
soon as he entered the room, she called to Him to come and
pray our Savr soon to take her;- this was done, in a fervent
pray's offered in her behalf, during a sensation of our
Lords presence she however recovered a little, and during
her continuance a few days longer amongst us, she fre
quently wished our Savr to release her:- the day previous
to her departure, she sent for a few of her little compani
ons, presenting each with a small token of her love, and
desired them to love our Savr. her countenance was
serene and Angelic: the night preceding the day of her
departure, she suffered much, and frequently exclaimed Dear
Savr, come upon and take me. Her wish was realized on the
17th between one and two o'clock in the Afternoon, when she
breathed her last, softly and gently yielding up her depart
ing Spirit into those happy regions where pain and sorrow


cease, and where she now beholds Him face to face in
whose presence is fullness of Joy.
Her short Warfare here below was 9 years and almost
7 months.


