Memoirs
of our much beloved late Sister Henriette
Mary Louise V. Hayn; who on the 27th
of Aug: 1782 at Herrnhut entered into
the Joy of her Lord.
She left the following Account concerning
herself, Louisel that poor Sinner would 
rather lie weeping at the feet of Jesus, then say
anything touching her Pilgrimage here below:
But ah! In love to my Soul he has been very
gracious to me, and therefore I cannot keep
silence, but am moved in simplicity of heart
to give to my dearest Brethern & Sisters a
Narrative of what He hath done to my Soul.
I was born May 28th 1724 at Idstein a Town
in Nassau. My Father was George Henry V.
Hayn Cheif Forester in all the Principality
of Nassau, born in Lower Lusatia, where my
Grand Father had his Estates. My Mother was
Ernestine V. Losberg from Oettingen in Swabia
Her Father when a Child of 7 Years, emigrated
with his Mother out of Austria for the sake
of Religion forsaking all their Relations and
Estates. Poor I, and indeed one of the meanest
of Gods Creatures, as far as I can recollect felt
my Saviours Love from my tenderest Infancy.
When a little Child I frequently had such a
tender Sensation of his Love, that I some times
retired to a Corner and cry'd, and no body knew
why. The lovely Work of Grace, which the Holy
Ghost carri


carried on in my tender heart is still new to me
to this very hour. By occasion of learning the
first Verses by way of Prayer, as the Saviour's
Blood & Righteousness &c. I felt and tasted already
something of that dear & precious blood, and re-
ceived such lively Impressions of the dear suff-
ering Lamb of God, which continued with me through
out my whole Life. Once in quite a miraculous
manner a Herrnuttish or Moravian little Doctrin-
al Book for Children happened to come into my
hands. It was just the thing that suited my taste
when I was reading it I frequently kissed this
little Book, carried it about me by day & night 
for fear of its being taken from me. When I
grew bigger, and was then under continual Inspecti-
on, my constant study was, how to contrive to
slip away for a little while in order to think on
Jesus or to pray to him. When I could not succeed
in the day time, I got up in the Night when
all was fast asleep, and spent many an hour
upon my krees, for my heart was verily burn-
ing for with Love toward Jesus. When we went a walk-
ing I sometimes contrived it, to stay a little
behind, prostrated quickly on the Ground, as if I was
wanting to pick flowers, and kissed the Ground
thinking childlikely that was the spot where
my dearest Jesus sweated Bloody sweat.
In my 13th Year I went for the first time to the
H. Sacrament in a Lutheran Church, and received
this highest Good with deepest Reverence & Awe.
After this, according to the custom of the World,
they began to introduce me more into Company;


and as particularly some sensible persons and
people of quality did very pretty with me and
courted me, it proved a great hurt to my heart
for I also strove to render myself agreable,
and the good Understanding I was in with my dear
Saviour, gradually ceased, instead of this fear
and Shyness look place in me, so that I no more
so childlikely could apply to him. my thoughts
were accusing, or else excusing one another, and
I came into distress & Misery on account of the 
Loss of the happiness in my Soul. I kneel'd down
a hundred times, entreating our Saviour with tears
to have Mercy on me again, and telling him, that
I neither could nor would love any thing in this World
but him alone; but a hundred times I was made sen-
sible again, that it was not true, & that so easily
something else could engage my unsteady Soul and
mind. Thus I went on for several years in a con-
tinual Lamentation about myself, and the loss
of my former Familiarity with our dear Saviour.
Everything in the World that comonly yields pleasure
to young people, became disgustful to me. About
this time I got to read the Berlin Discourses, which
proved a great Comfort to me. I heard also a great
deal of talk about a new Place in Wetteravia called
Herrnhag, which the Herrnhuters were a building
on account of which I felt an inexpressible joy.
Notwithstanding the accounts that were given 
me concerning the Bretherns Congregations were 
the most contemptible, I always believed the 
contrary, and was fully assured within my heart, 
that this very People was my People, with whom


I wanted to live and to die; tho' I never yet had seen
a Brother or Sister. My only anxious Concern
was how can it possibly be brought about to bear
that I should get my place among them? Mean-
while I neglected no Oportunity where I could
disclose to my Parents my thoughts about the
new Phenomenon (appearance) of the Kingdom
of God on Earth, and how much my heart was
drawn towards it; but I perceived plain enough
that I never could expect such a thing as to
obtain their consent for my going to the Bretherns
Congregation, without grieving them the utter
most and yet, l loved them as much as my
own Life. However when one Morning, as I
usually did, was reading to my Father out of the
New Testament, and I happened to come to these Words
of our Saviour's as He that loveth Father or Mother
more then me, is not worthy of me. I was so 
struck that I laid down the Book, as if I was
obliged to go about some business, hastened to my
Room and wrote a Letter to my Father upon
the subject of the above Words, declaring to him
with many tears in a most moveing & submissive
manner; that I now was no longer able to resist
the divine Calling in my heart, and therefore was
obliged to rise and to set out directly for Herrnhag.
I did so, and set off immediately, without look-
ing after anything, took the Letter with me, and
when I got into the first Village, sent it back to
my Parents house. Tho' such a step appeared
very extraordinary and bold to a high degree, and
tho' it caused me a great deal of trouble (for my
Parents sent directly after me and fetched me
back from Frankfurt) yet it proved the means


of my being set at liberty for some sensible
Persons advised my Parents, to send me only
for a short time to Herrnhag being confident,
that I there would soon be convinced of my error
and thus be cured of it forever. In consequence
of this good advice I was expeditiously and very
loveingly conveyed to Herrnhag for a Visit. Nov.
the 5th 1744, was that to me ever blessed day, when
I arrived at Marienborn and saw for the first
time Brothers and Sisters, Such a Peace of God
and feeling of the Congregation Spirit directly sur-
rounded and pervaded me, as is always new to me,
whenever I think on it. The Pilgrims Congregation
happened then to be there, and our Saviour let me
find favour with all the Brn & Srs but especially
with the late dear Disciple, tho' I was yet such a
great Stranger. I had forsaken a couple of dear
Parents, but here it was to me as if I had found at
once hundred Fathers & Mothers, so loving did I
feel the hearts of all the Brethern & Srs: towards
poor me; and I was indeed like a Child, that is
arrived from abroad in it's own Mother's house
and among its kindred. After having been over
poured with Grace & Love for several weeks in that
dear House Marienborn, and the dear Disciple's
taking all pains on my account, and willing
himself to my Father, offering himself to take me
as his own child; I got Leave to move into the
Sing. Sisters House at Herrnhag. I was not
long there before the Holy Ghost begun a Work
of Grace in my heart, I was very Simple and
upright in telling every thing that was cleared up
to me at that time, and whatever I could gather
to accuse myself for; for I observed that I was want-
ing in point of Sinnership, & felt a longing


longing desire for it. I fought will many tears
for Forgiveness in his Blood with regard to every
thing that had occurred in my Life and that
was not good. I got also the assurance of his
Pardon, and was richly comforted. However the
true self knowledge, and radical lure of Soul
and Body were reserved to me for another period.
According to the insight which I have at present
into my case at that time, I was then carried
away directly with the Stream of Grace & had
not time rightly to reflect on myself. It was
first then the Period of the Litany of the Wounds
of Jesus, and of the Hymns concerning his
Wounds. Whoever did experience it at that
time, will know best how powerful Grace then
was. I pass overall the great difficulties
arising between my Parents & me, for half a
year after I had left them, they demanded me
back again, and as the late Disciple himself
was apprehansive of various disagreable Conse-
quences, I was obliged by his own positive Order
to return once more to my Parents; however he
assured one at the same time, that I should soon
come back again, which actually came to pass. Our
dear Saviour help'd me in a most wonderful manner
so as to be entirely set at liberty and brought me joyful
and happy back again to my dear Herrnhag. In the
year 1746 on the 30th of Jany, I became Partaker of the
Body & Blood of the Lord in the H. Sacrament for the
first time with the Bretherns Congregation, with 
a right hungry soul, but so abashed, that it seemed
to one, as if this Grace and Favour was much too
great. In the same Year I moved into the Girls house
for the Instruction of Children and lived with the Girls
then I moved with the Oceonomy to Mareinborn, and
in the year 1747 came with the Same back again to Herrenhag.
As to the various Periods, which in a kind of constant
Transport I passed through with the dear Congregation
at Herrnhag, I dare not venture to say any thing 
particularly upon that Topick: Thus much I


I know with respect to myself, that I frequently
felt powerful Grace, but for want of a Sinner
Foundation I could not improve it rightly. Our
Saviour be praised eternally! who in Love and
Mercy to his poor sheep led them soon back to the
wholesome Pasture of his Wounds, without harm &
loss to any one, whose heart at that time kept him
in view. In the Year 1750 the Girls house lost their
dear Justine Schweiniz, who had the Care of that 
house for several years, and I was put into her
place, after having been received an Acoluth, and
blessed a Deaconess of the Bretherns Church already
in the year 1748. In the Year 1750 I emigrated
with the Girls Oeconomy to Upper Lusatia, and our
first Place of abode was the Castle of Hannersdorf
till in the year 1751 in March we moved to dear H.hut
into that blessed House where I might fall prostrate
and adore, whenever I enter into it and call to mind
what unspeakable blessings were reserved saved for me
that I might enjoy them in that House. The Remem-
brance of a thousand Cares & Sorrows attending the
Office I was entrusted with among such a large
number of Children, is indeed as if they were it was wiped
away out of my mind. So much I recollect still
what a painful and distressing thing it was; to see
so many children hurt in their constitutions in
consequence of the violent Draught of air prevail-
ing in that House &c &c.
That blessed Spirit the H. Ghost had in these and in
the succeeding years his dilight with our dear little
Children, and perfected out of the Mouth of these
Babes powerful Praise to our dear Saviour.
However this is a thing very well known, & there was
nothing left such an indelible impression upon
my heart, as the deeply humbling Sensation, which
I had of my Insufficiency, Defects & Mistakes, not
withstanding my best Intention and good Will.
But what at that time during these Songs of Praise, of
his Babes, was done, to the Soul, of his unworthy
Handmaid I cannot pass over in silence, but will


give a Simple Narrative of it. Notwithstanding
all the Grace and Mercy which hitherto I had ex-
perienced and enjoyed, there remained yet in the bottom
of my heart an incessant longing for attaining to a
nearer Connexion with our Saviour, and I got into
a state of Mourning, which in the beginning I could
not understand; till in the year 1751 the late Disciple
began to keep separate Conferences with some of us.
which our Saviour made a means of promoting
my eternal Felicity. He spoke to us, as it appear-
ed to me, with extraordinary clearness concerning
the New birth of the heart, the purifying of our
Souls, the Necessity of becoming one Spirit with the
Lord, the Sanctification, without which none shall
see his Face. During his speaking upon these
subjects a light began to shine in me, whereby
I discovered clearly what was still wanting in me
and what the H. Ghost had already spoken about to
my heart for a considerable time. Now a new
Work of God commenced in my heart, I got clearly
to see the State which my Soul was in; the fall of Man
was appropriated to me in such a manner, as if
I myself personally had comitted the Crime; I
got to feel it most sensibly, how both Soul & Body
were mortally wounded, and that there was no
soundness in the whole Man. All former Ex-
periences of our Saviour were as if taken away
from me, and I beheld myself like one on the
brink of Destruction, full of dread and horror.
This was the condition I was in till once during
a Night Watch, which in those days I kept several
times, the Holy Ghost presented to my mind the
sorrowful Creator, bemoaning his fallen Creature
Man, grieving on account of his spiritual Death
and then at once fixing upon that noble Deter-
mination to become Man. Then it was to me
as if all the Angels in heaven were proclaiming
Peace to me. That was an important hour when
for the first time again I got confidence to call upon
Jesus and to weep for him. It was as if every


Fragment of Memoir of Louisa von Hayn dep Aug 27 1782
It was as of every Drop of Blood within me was cry-
ing after my Redeemer, my Advocate, to justify
me before the Throne of God, and to declare me as
his redeemed Child. These were indeed unutterable
gronings which the H. Spirit himself made within
me. But I discovered to no body, even not to my
most intimate Friends about me, what was car-
rying on within me, except to the late Discipless
to whom I thought it my Duty to disclose my heart.
Meanwhile I was able to transact my business un-
interruptedly, and under this Godly Sorrow I felt
in the inmost recesses of my heart a happiness
already. Once being quite at a loss, not know-
ing what to do, having even no strength to weep or
to pray I retired to a lonely place, prostrated
myself of the Ground, and cryed aloud like a
little Child after its Mother, when at once a Sab-
batical Rest entered into my Soul. It was to me
as if I was dipt & sunk in Jesus Blood, and all
my sense were soothed to quiet hushed. Then the bright day-Spring
arose in my heart, like the Sun in his brightness
breaking thro' the Clouds. Whereas Peace, Peace, un-
utterable Peace! I felt just like a new born Child,
which by its Parents after hard Labour is tenderly
embraced, kissed, suckled, fed, and lulled to sleep.
O ye heavenly Moments! No human Comparison
can ever come up to You! It was indeed to me as if 
every drop of blood in my veins, and all the Tears
which were trickling down plentifully from my
Cheeks were calling out, I am atoned for! I am
reconciled! All that time I studiously shun'd
all Company, list any body should discover that
something extraordinary happened to me; for I
appeared to myself in all respects like a now Creature
and from a Deep sense of my Unworthiness and
low state wanted to hide myself like a Worm
in the ground.


This was of a truth entering into the Kingdom
of Heaven to the enjoyment of the eternal Grace
of the Lord Jesus Christ, and of the most tender Affecti-
on of any dear Father in Heaven, an admission into
the most intimate Fellowship of the Holy Ghost
an access to the Well of Watter Springing up
into everlasting Life, to the Vine whose Sap
penetrates the whole Man of God, both as to Soul
and to the body. Thus I gradually got used to
this new way of being happy, and the dear H. Ghost
was early & late imployed with me in admonish-
ing, warning comforting, and especially in imprinting
it deeply upon my hearty that all my Happenings
and Felicty, is a very dear Purchase, even the
Purchase of the Blood of Jesus Christ, in teaching
me how to preserve this treasure in earthen yea
in Sinful Vessels. Yea all the Divine Truths
were laid before me to fresh & lively, as if taken
out of the first hand, and set in such a cleare
light, that I am not able to express it sufficiently
Especially our Father in Heaven, my & my dearest
Jesus Abba, was felt & worshipped by this Recon-
ciled Child with tender Affection beyond all esc-
pression. My dear Saviour reveled himself to
my Soul by degrees, and previous to each new
Manifestation, there was always a new Contrition
of the heart, a new Sensation of Depravity, and a
weeping after his Soul. For his part, he was
from Year to Year more gracious, more tender
and more condesending, and for my part,
I became poorer & poorer and more begger
like. To proceed farther in my Narrative,
I think it neither needful nor profitable.
His Passion, ah! his Passion! his bleeding
and his dying, and that I poor little Worm
am redeemed & saved from Sin and death


by that precious innocent blood, is so great
to me, that it transcends every thing in time
and in Eternity.
So much this dear Handmaid of Jesus
has left us in her own hand writing, of what
the Lord had done to her Soul. How much might
be still said concerning those many evidences
of Grace; by which her Labour has been so remark-
ably distinguished, to the Blessing of so many 
kindred Souls, and concerning those precious
Gifts where with she was adorned by her God &
Creator. But she was one that walked humb-
ly with her Lord, did not please herself, and
wanted no Praise & Honour from Men; but
found her greatest happiness in the Lowliness
of the heart, and in the true Poverty of the Spirit
looking upon were thing as unmerited Grace.
Therefore He who bestowed every good Gift on
her shall receive thousand thanks & Praise
from us, for her beautiful Course of Grace, and
for all which he thro' her service has imparted
to us. Her noble Character, and the Grace and
Unction that rested upon her, as also the hap-
piness of her heart, which lived wholly in our
Saviour, is sufficiently known, out only by her
delightful Hymns, but also her whole Demean-
our, her Words & edifying Walk & Conversation.
After She had laboured for 16 Year in the Girls
House with unwearied motherly Care & faithfulness
as their Helper, she moved October 6 th 1766 into
the Choir House, to supply the Place of our dear
late Caritas then going to Zeist, as Helper of the
Single Sisters Choir here. In the years 1764 & 1769
She was present at the Bretherns Synods at Marien-
born, & on her road visited the Sisters Choirs at Ebers-
dorf & Neudietendorf much to her satisfaction. In the


In the suceeding Years she likewise pay'd some
blessed Visits to the Choir Houses of the Sing: Sister
at Neusalz & Gnadenfrey; Excepting these Excursio-
ons, her dear Choir in Hhut had her in their
midst these 16 years uninterruptedly, & enjoyed
her faithful Motherly Care in a manner, as is
beyond all description, and as it never can be
forgotten by us. At the same time the Prosperity of
the whole Bretherns Unity, of the Congregation here, &
especially of all the Single Sisters Choirs lay so near
her heart, that in her Prayre She not only frequent-
ly was recomending them to our Lord, but also as-
siduously studied what might be conducive to the
executing of his Counsel of Grace. In the Congregation
Conferences also she communicated her Ideas and
Sentiments according to that Insight, which our
Saviour had given her into his Cause. These many
years she had a very troubelsome Cough, occasioned by
catching cold, which continued increasing from year
to year, and on account of which her strength was
impairing. However she discharged her Office always
with uncommon Clearness, thinking little on her
bodily Weakness; at the same time the tender longing
of the heart to be soon with that Friend, with whom
she was so intimately connected, was increasing
more & more, on account of which our Saviour
himself had to pacify her Soul, and to grant her
Patience. Upon this head the frequently expressed
herself in a moving manner, both in writing & 
by word of mouth. In a letter, which she had writ-
ten already three years ago to her own Sisters,
She says among other things "I perceive that I
soon shall depart to my dear Saviour; for not
only bodily strength is wasting fast; but I feel
fast an extraordinary longing desire in my Soul
to be at home with the Lord, and this is accompanied with
this lively & joyful home Amen, I shall have the
Grace, soon to see my Jesus Face!" Whenever in her
hearty & familiar Conversation, by which the heart


always could profit and be benefited, she happened
to light on the subject of going home, and of
the Church made perfect; She was quite in her
Element and cheerfully recolected those dear
hearts that were gone thither before her, especial-
ly the late dear Disciple and Sr Caritas Ebbing.
At the beginning of this Year she gave plainly to
understand that she was pretty sure, that it would
be the last of her Life. Her Weakness was percept-
ibly increasing & She declined using any means
as those which she hither to had used proved to
be without effect. But during this sickness the
faithful Physcion of her Soul was in a quite pecu-
liar manner occupied with her heart, concerning
which the expressed herself to an intimate Friend
of hers "to the following purport, I am at present
In a very important Season; our Saviour is
Schooling me, and wants to discover still to me
the least Dust that in me is not well pleasing
to him. I have been minutely considering my whole
Course of Life and found, that our Saviour indeed
has bestowed upon me abundance of Grace & Mercy
but that I by far have not made such use of it
as I might have done; I am ashamed at my In-
dolence & Negligence in discharging that precious
Trust commited to me by our Saviour, out of
mere Grace; and especially also on this account
that I have not always received his Love, quite
slowly melted & Worm like. In the light of his
Wounds he has discovered to me still many a
selfishness, which his Blood must cleanse me
from; therefore I am craving from the bottom
of my heart, to receive once more a thorrough
Absolution from our Saviour". When the blessed
Passion Week was beginning and she was no more
able to go out; She wished that in this view the 


Pedilaviam might be administred to her in her
room; which accordingly was done the night
before Maunday Thursday after she once more
has a tender Sinnerlike hearts Conversation
accompanied with many Fears, and during a 
sensation of our Saviours most intimate Near-
ness; concerning which the afterwards declared
that our Saviour upon this occasion impressed
once more his Seal upon her as his happy
redeemed Sinner. May the 4th. She enjoyed the
body & blood of our Lord once more in fellowship
with her Choir. May the 22d she celebrated her birth-
day very weak indeed, however cheerful like a
child, and was particularly happy on account of
the fine Watch Word an that day: They shall
not hunger, nor thirst; neither shall the heat
nor sun smite them; for he that hath Mercy
on them shall lead them, even by the Springs
of water shall he guide them Is 49.10.
Were the Seraphs shine most bright
Singing in eternal light,
Holy Holy Holy! God,
Father, Son, & Spirit good!
And when at night it was charmingly Sung by
the Sisters in the Passage before her room, and
accompanied with delightful Music, she Stept
out and let her voice be heard for the last time
in her Choir, with singing some Verses, which as
her Farewell Blessing the Sisters joined in with
Devotion. June the 19th when she called to
mind the happy Departure of the late Countess
Zinzendorf, she stirred herself up out of her great
Weakness, and kept the usual Conference with
the Overseers of the rooms; upon which occasion
the had a very impressive and sinnerlike
Conversation with that Company, & charged the
Sisters to render Thanks to our Saviour, and to be


joyful in fellowship with her for her important
Lot. Her Farewell Words then were; "We abide
unseperated I go to our Saviour to see him
bodily and ye, my dear Sisters, continue tho' not
seeing to cleave quite close to him, till one after
the other shall follow me." When in the suceeding
Weeks the dear Brethern & Sisters of the the U. E. Con:nec
and so many other dear Acquaintances from other
Congregations arrived here, and upon this occasion
came to see our dear Louisel, She rejoiced heartily
to see them once more and expressed her Love very
feelingly. She took still Special share in the
Synod of the Bretherns Unity, and secretly & diligent-
ly blessed this Assimbly in her heart. Tho' her
Cough and her great Weakness seemed to prove
more & more troublesome to her yet she made
no complaints on that account; but was at
always thankful, that our Saviour made
everything bearable to her, and her time pass
away swiftly.
Sometimes she broke out in the Words,
"Ah! The the delightful living Hope of eternal Life
which renders one superior to all difficulties,
and to every fear, which upon this occasion so
easily shews itself in human nature."
She looked upon this likewise as a special
Blessing, that she was not confined to her bed.
Aug 22d. She perceived that her Cough chang-
ed, on account of which she clapp'd her hands
for Joy. In the following days the swelling in
her Legs increased more & more, and contrary
to her custom hitherto she had sleepless Nights
during which the prayed a great deal to our
Saviour. As soon as she entered upon the 


Last Week of the Month of Aug. viz. the 25th
on a Sunday, she rejoiced uncomonly & wanted
every body to rejoice with her, being confident
that it was the last Week of her Life. Since that
day she had scarce any rest, till on the 27th when
at Noon a great Change was observed in her.
From that time she lay very quiet like in a 
slumber, and only now & then uttered a few Words.
But her amicable looks continually testified to
those that were standing round about her, how
tenderly she loved, tho' at the same time it was
painful to behold her sufferings. In the Even
ing half after an hour after 9 o'Clock that by
her so fervently wished for Moment came when
her happy Soul, reconciled by the Blood of Jesus
and pevaded by his Love, was carried home into
his Arms to rest forever at his Wounds. Thus
with the Blessing of the Congregation, and of her
Choir she entered happily into the Joy of her
Lord, during a feeling, tho' painful on account
of her Departure, yet thro' the Peace of our Lord
inly blessed & happy, when at the same time we
received the comfortable Assurance, that her Blessing
will rest upon us, and that our dear Lord will
cause her faithful Labour to be productive of
fruit, To his own glory. May He grant us the
Grace to follow her beautiful Example, till
we be also completed.


