Lindsey House Nov 1st 1754.
After the remains of our dear Br Larish were intred, the Brn & Srs
(among whom where many from London) not in the Family Hall in
Lindsey House and then was Sung that Hymn: O Head so full of
Bruises & After which the Disciple spoke in English as follows.
I have but a few words to say on this Occasion, the Liturgy of to
Day belongs to the Evening when our Saviour went from us, the pre-
sent Day has besides that, the particular character of all Saints, & that
gives me a handle to speak something of the Saints, & of the nature of a Saint.
'Tis a name quite common in the Bible, and if we hear of a good Man
who left the World 2, or 300 Years ago, then we have not much against
his appearing in that Character, and are not shock'd by it,
but the Ideas we have form'd to ourselves of a Saint are such, that
in the Romish Church itself no body can be called so, till 1000
Years after his Departure. The reason is because one fears,
if any one should remain who had seen that Man or
Woman he would Controul his Sanctity, he would
say something that would lesson his Opinion of his Wor-
thiness. I am sure one is greatly mistaken in this Respect,
but as we are calld to promote the Sinnership we
are not so Curious to receive that Name, Saint, we
care not if that Charactor should be heard of no more
but for all that I would not have it, that we shou'd
loose the meaning of the Thing together with the name
Title & Charactor, & should ee prove careless in that point
I Fear we should be deprived of a great Charactor in the Gos-
pel Train. A Saint in my Opinion is a Christian,
who thinks very little, who perhaps may be oblig'd to


think of many things on Account of his Business & of his
Office, but when I say he thinks not much, I mean that he
does not care to think much, according to the Inclination
of his Heart. You will scarcely find a Saint among the great
Men, the Rich & learn'd Men, perhaps not among the Gen-
try, or what one calls an easy Person in this World, the rea-
son is, because all such charge themselves with too ma-
ny Superfluities, while the necessary condition of becoming
a Saint, is not to have a great Store of Idle & unnecessa-
ry things about him. Simplicity & plainness is the Distin-
guishing, mark of a Saint. I confess that if a Person
of that Character, happens to want Education & of
Course what one calls all manner of required Qualities
hath absoludely not so much notion of the World, as
to deal in an ordinary Way, in a regular Way, then the
Sanctity of such a Man, may not comand that Honour
that Awe, that Reverence which is due to it as long as he
lives, & it Seems therefore, that I should be afraid to tell
you now by way of Discourse, what I have already Sung
of my Br Larish, whom I always thought a Saint &
I beleive there are 100 in the Cattalouge on Dypticks of old,
who were by far not his paramounts, not like him, nor so
much of a Saint as He. He was a Person void of all
manner of Education, he had been neglected in all the
Necessary things of this Life, & after having found the 
Secret, to make himself to be forgotten in this World, after


having placed himself behind the Congregation at Hhuth, in
order to lead a Simple Civil Life, & absolutely not regard-
ed by any one, which he contriv'd so out of a true Humility,
for He was a Lord, & had then many Subjects, & a great
Territory of his own. When he was in that Situation
he came hither, and met with one of the most Difficult
Tasks which can be imagin'd, nevertheless he atcheiv'd & per-
formd it with such surprising Simplicity & wisdom, that
I cant help owning once more, that I should have been
embarrass'd in the highest degree to do the like: And I must add
that if after my Decease one would compare me to that great
Man, & my Conduct to his many Personal Circumstances, as
well as real Intricacies, which would be too long to relate
here (the Saviour knows them, & part of us are not Igorant
thereof,) it would be mere Courtesey. Br. Larish fullfill'd
his Task with Honour, & has not left one leaf of his Book
unfinish'd. His end was like to that of all truly great Men, a
little while before he had not the least thought of going home
he was Sick, & a very long time knew his sase almost incurable
but drew no Consequence from it for in approaching Dissolution.
When he was acquainted of the Turn his Sickness had taken
& of the approaching Dissolution, 'twas very well, 'twas
all the same to him. Those Days passed away in the same
Strain as the foregoing. He treated that awful matter as simple
Natural & unconcerndly fill the last gasp as usual, that
none of the Heroes of this world, nore of the great Geniuses
needed to be asham'd of the same Exit, Considering the thing in 


itself & without that difference, which makes his case so
much happier than theirs, as for that, He will never
change his Exit for that of any Hero of this World, of
any great man or Philosopher whatsoever that is quite
out of Question, all I have to say on that part is,
that he departed this Life like a Hero.
Every one enabled from above to see the hidden Side
of things, their real Charactor to extricate the real
point out of appearances, will never Contradict my opini-
on, about his abode here, having been like his Departure
I wish with all my Heart, that so many brave Brn & Srs
so many wise ones so many well Educated, so many truly
learned ones. And which is the best of all so many of our
Sinnerlike good People may obtain.
His Natural & Simple Charactor that they who
had not the good fortune to have known him personally
may be encouragde thereto by his pretty End.
What I have said is only Introductory to that little
Hymn which I have Compos'd on his Account & which
perhaps will be Translated.
Next follows some Account of his Life & Departure
Our dear Br Charles Henry Conrad von Parish, was born
Sept 22nd 1711 in Gradenwiz near Cosel in upper Silesia. He
was descended from the Ancient Famous Family of the Courts
& Lords of Larish, also of the Lineage of great Nimsdorff
one of whom, in the Service of our Savr is already a grain of


Wheat in Surinam. He inherited from his parents the Lord-
ships of Shossloehiz Lomniz Zonade & Rodewiz. In his
tender Youth he became acquainted with Abbot Steinmez & o-
ther Servants of God, by means of the well known great Just-
ness awakening, & he was concern'd about his Salvation very
much, this continued for some time, & on this account he staid a-
while in Neustad Mandel with Abbot Steinmetz, was at Werningrode
Halle & other Places, where he thought perhaps he might get a
Blessing for his Heart. Since 1731 he has been acquainted
with the Brn as well in Jena as in other Places & came
Ifrom time to time to Visit the Congn in Hhuth, where the
Savr came ever nearer to his Heart. He found no true rest
from all his good Performance, nor was delivered from his An-
xiety till he resolv'd in the Year 1739 to become the intire
Reward of the Smart of Jesus, at the same time he got
a Conviction to let every thing be as it was, & to betake him-
self to the Congn to stay there; accordingly he did so, with
a true Blessing for his Heart, & he had at that time true-
ly blessed times for his Heart with the Single Brn assist-
ed also quite faithfully in Building their Choir House
there. He was also soon received into the Congn & partook
of the Corps & Blood of Jesus in the Sacrament with
the Congn.
In May 1742, He came over to Engl. were he staid for some
time especially in Yorkshire & was edifying to the Congn in his
Servants office in the Hall which he perform'd very faith-


fully & with his whole Heart from thence he returned in com-
pany with the Dr Disciple & Mother to Holland & so on to
M-born & was there May 15th 1743. Married to our Sr. Diana
Raymond after his marriage her his Wife were 1st Deacons
in Engl & conducted it with true Simplicity & many Bless-
sings afterwards he made Several Journeys to Hhuth &
Hhaag, in this Year also he visited his Lordships & found him-
self not only not in a Capacity to execute what he had in-
tended, but found also such an Entanglement in his worldly
Affairs, that he thought it best to sell his Estates, to pay
he Debts, & to give the rest to the Diaconate of the Enity
which at that time was much streighten'd, for wch in the
Year 1740 the New House calld Lichtenburg was made over to 
him & fitted up, but because his comfort did not like to tarry
at Hhaag, he went with her first to Zyest & in the last
Year again to Engl; & enjoyed by his abode in each Place of
those Congns much Grace & Blessings for his Heart, & all
the Brn & Srs love him, he had a longer attachment & faithful
Heart full of love to our Savr & his Congn & amidst the va-
rious Circumstances wch his weak constitution mostly occasi-
ond. He was never put off from his point, but his Heart al-
ways long'd after him, whom he can now see bodily & kiss his
Wounds.
The latter Years of his mortal Life he was very Sickly & had
many disorders in his Body, but especially since the Winter
53 yet as long as it was possible he came to the Opportunities
in the Disciples House very diligently & with great Chearfull-


ness. According to the Nature of His Disease and frequent casaul-
ties of all sorts He thought nothing at first of going home, till just
after his Birthday this year when the Watchword was untill the
glance extend throughout & then he came upon it very happily
himself, and he was heard to say when by by himself, to our
Saviour: My Dear Saviour be thou my all in all & round a-
about me, I am indeed weak, but thou knowest well how to make,
it better, and he said: I am indeed spent or very weak, but I
shall soon go into the Regions of health. Another time, when
he was in great pain he comforted himself with the sufferings
of our Saviour, & rejorced at the sweet hour of his release, &
only wish'd that our Saviour wo'd take him to himself in
sleep. As he pressd very much to have all his Temporal affairs
concerning him and his regulated while he was here, therefore
the Synodal Conclusion of 1753, was thro' the interposition
of the Disciples House but a few days before his end in
the name of our God brought into the form customary
here, and tho' all the necessary forms are yet wanting from both
the Married parties, yet the Deed is delivered to the satisfac-
tion of all sides. Oct 26 He got a new disorder & said: that now
he was ready to waite for the last kiss, when the Brn at his
desire sung him some verses he rejoyced and said O that
has strengthned me, & so continued in continual thought
of going home till the 28 of Octor when he said: to this Ser-
vant Bror Summerskill, this Ev'ning or Tomorrow
morning the expected hour will come & often asked, is it not yet
time he sent also 2 or 3 times in the night for Br Johan


to come and bless him, and when Joh came to him, and sung: pale
Lips kiss him upon the Heart, he said; o yes, and to that Verse and
when thy Mouth expiring &c. He said even to Day.
Oct 29th Towards Morning he took leave of his Wife and said:
My dear I kiss thee on thy Heart, here I have been thy Hus-
band and thy Heart, we was both one Body but now no
more, I an going to our dear Saviour and shall expect
thee with my Bridegroom with Joy: Afterwards he
said to Br Summerskill and his Wife, my dear Children for-
give me every thing and I thank you for all the Love and
faithfulness that you shew'd me here and the Brn will think
on you for it, thereupon he said to his Maid (who is no
Sister) adue I thank you also for all you have done for me, I
wish you well in the World, about Six o'Clock in the 
Morning he desired Brother John to be called
again, because he was very weak but re-
cover'd himself as soon as he saw him wch
he did several times before; The rest of the
Time he was mostly as if he was a-
sleep, & had thereby sometimes such an
extraordinary lovely & smiling look
that the eyes of the Brethren & Sisters
round about him overflowed. Hutton
said once, such a look is worth more


than 100 Guineas, at last he awoke, rais'd
himself and said to Brother Johannes
now Bless me, & then he took his hand &
laid it himself upon his forehead, &
so Johannes Blessed him with that
Verse: & let his Mouth expiring on
thy dear Breast recline &c. to
which our dear happy heart said yes
powerfully: Ater the Blessing
he look'd about once more, when
he saw Bror. Johannes, Wallerville
Hutton & others standing round
him, he threw them a kiss, & said:
Fare you well Adue sweetly the holy Ghost has
impress'd upon all upon my heart
thy committed to him many Sa-
lutations & kisses to the Saviour and


the Church above made perfect
& perticularly our dear Blessed
Christle, and he promissd it 
with a plain Yes. His last
Words were: We all live unto
him & then he shut his eyes
again and slept & so accord-
ing to his wish his Spirit was
kiss'd away in Sleep & the Brn
& Sisters round him sung him quite into
his rest. His Tabernacle displayed
a very happy look with which
the Brethren & Sisters present
in Sarons hall delighted them-
selves


Made by the dear Disciple on Br L. Departure
1st Thou venerable Child of Grace 
Go in thy white and Blood wash'd Dress
To live there henceforth without Sin
where many a Soul 'fore thee hath been :/:
2nd on all Saints Day thy Corpse is laid
In God's green pretty Sharon's Bed
Where it shall sweetly rest, till He
Thinks fit to Change it Gloriously :/:
3rd from the Disciples House there are
Already Sevral Grains Sown there, 
Marigens and her little ones
* Kleists, Millers, & Golds Little Sons
and Christels Bones
4th That Corpse is now laid in the Grave to 
On whose account no doubt we have,
But he who did inhabit it
Will fetch it Back when quite made fit :/:
5th Now thou that Body's noble Guest
Who us so edified hast
Because thy Farewell was like that
which we of Fredrick Whilhelm Great
Commemorate
Or *Kleists, Millers, Gold's Child's mortal Bones
and my own Son's


6th Thou wert presentis Animi
Ev'n in thy Farewell Agony
Some Days thou'st ready for Adieu
So that thy our Friend & Mother too
their Pleasure view
7th I saw it when that Angel dear
Who waited on our Parish here
Went to his Brn. He did say
Beloved only think I pray :/:
8th I thought I waited on a Sheep
Which happen'd on his Path to keep
But in its Exit turn'd at length
To Heroism that little Strength :/:
9th This last Act finds so much Applause
That Ev'n a Christle hath no cause
To blush at it, when Ludwig shall
So clear and chearful leave his Call
O very well.
10th Should one ask seriously: How so? 
What is it that makes Larish go
So nobly, & afford a Sight
of which God's House hold wth Delight
Saith. That is right?
11th I answer Larish may be stil'd
In all Respects a simple Child
A Child, as Scripture teaches us
Is otherwise Synonimous
with Genius.


12th Swift's Wit did end in Lunacy
A Clark doth loose his Forced Esprit
Ev'n Newton turns a Simpleton
But Larish, when ripe to be gone
a Solomon.
13th Thou Partner of this Man, attend
And ponder well his happy End
Let thyself in Child's Mould be cast
To shall you be right nobly grac'd
and shine at last
14th All ye who're Saints because the Lamb
Did take upon him your Sins Shame
Salute him ye who're gone to Christ
You here; turn Children be advis'd
and so Baptiz'd


