The Life of the Single Sistr Susanh Watson, who went to our
Savr, July 31st in the Choir House at Fulneck. Concerning
which the following is Her own account.
I was born June 25th 1751 at Little Gumersall in
the Parish of Birstal, Yorkshire, and Baptizd by
the Brn. In my 6th year my dr Father departed this Life,
and as I was of a weakly constitution my dr Mother took
all posible care of me, and altho' her cheif concern was, that I
might learn to know & Love our dear savr, and to that
purpose she took me to the Childrns Meetings, where I had
many drawings of grace in my heart, particularly att
a meeting held by Br Worthington, wherein he display'd
the tender regard our dr Savr had for the Childrn that
he gathord even the smallest tear Shed on his account.
this was spoke in so feeling a manner, as made a lasting impression on
my mind, so that I never forgot it. In my 15th year it
pleasd our Savr to take my dr Mother home to himself
by means of a very Short sickness. Her last blessing, Just
before Her happy departure, affected me much, at which
time She reccommended me in a tender manner to the care
of my Eldest Sistr, who has ever since faithfully perform'd
the promise She thon made, and we with my Sistr Mary
together lived very Comfortably togethor; my sistr taking
all posible care to preserve us from the world. In my
girls yoars I already began to feel my natural depravity
and had a hard Struggle with self my self, which thro'
our dr Savrs faithfullness towards me torminated in a
desire to Live with the Sistrs which I made known, and
obtaind leave to remove to the Houme Oeconimy in my 17 year


Octbr 16, where I was rec'd in a loving manner, and found
my self quite at home amongst the Sistrs, till the same
Oeconimy mov'd to the Little Moore. soon after our
removal I came into an indiferency in my hoart and
Suffer'd my went on for some time without much concern
about my self or the aim of living with Sistrs. till my
faithfull Savr thro the convictions of his gracious Spirit
brought me again to Recolection, when I found I had not
follow'd his intention in calling me, which was that I
might learn to know and live for him alone in this world;
this causd me great uneasinoss, which I cou'd by no means
get rid of, but my dr Savr did not let me remain long in
before he drew so sensibly near to my heart, that I was
richly comforted thereby. March 27. 1769 I was rec'd
into the Congn to my real abasement, and went on for
Sometime in a humble sence of my own unworthiness,
but soon lost my self again in my former course of
indiferency, about which I become quite distressd and
Miserable, till by discoursing with my Labrss I found
Comfort, and was able to beleive, that our savr cou'd help
me in my dispositition as well as all other failings,
if I only kept close to Him. May ye 4 the same
year I was rec'd into the Sistrs Choir. which together
with my becoming a Canditate for the H Cn in 1770.
gave me the oppertunity of feeling more thon ever my
natural depravity, as our Savr made it a real schooling
time to me, I try'd all means to little effect to help
my self, not knowing our Savr as the Sinners only
friend, till in the midst of distress he graciously


manifested himself to my poor heart in such a lively
manner, as crucified for me a lost undone sinner,
as if he had been realy present, assuring me at the same
time of the forgiveness of all my sins, and I cou'd rely upon
the allsufficiency of his Merits, as a true poor Sinner, to
my inexpresible Joy and Comfort, July 17th 1771 I had the
grace to injoy the H Cn the first time with the Congn
to my unspeakable blossing, the impression of that great
grace has been an incouragment to me in the many
deviations or mistakes I have been senceible of since that
time, to turn to my dr Savr who has never fail'd to
Comfort & help his poor me thro' in all Circumstances,
Thus far her own account
Our Late Sistr. was of a reserved turn of mind, which
brought her sometimes into a little anxiety about herself
Which she espressd in few words, but in that case our dr Savr
faithfullness towards her, Comforted and Supported her, under the
feeling sence of her own poverty, as well as of her sickly
habit of Body, which this last spring took a consumptive
turn, whereby the comencement of her disolution was -
apprehonded. She did not at first take it in that light,
but thought, She might still recover, but as her strength
daily decreasd it became cloar to hor that our savrs
intention meaning was to prepare her by this sicknoss for himself,


She became more resign'd, and spent her time in a still
converse with her unseen freind, during her abode in the
Sickroom, where she injoy'd the H-Cn Several times
to Her comfort and blessing, resigning her self intirely
to tho will of hor dr Savr awaiting tho happy
Moment, whon he wou'd graciously release her out
of all hor pain, which he had made tolerable to hor
till towards tho later end, whon it was more severe,
but did not Continue so long, as for tho time of hor
departure was at hand, and which came to pass on Wensday
Morning about a Qarter after 4 o Clock, whon she fell
Softly and happily asleep with tho blessing of hor
Choir. (in the 25 yoar of hor Age


