Memoir
of the Sgl. Sr. Benigna Watson, who fell asleep
in Jesus, at Fulneck, on the 15th of November
1831, aged 83 1/2 years.
In the year 1764 she began to write a nar
rative of her life, which she afterwards continued
till within a very few years of her happy consum
mation. To this Narrative she has prefixed the
following short Note: "If an account of my
course thro' time may be of any benefit to any 
poor sinner, travelling towards Zion, it may be
worth while writing it. Otherwise not."
This Narrative the following is a faithful copy nearly a literal copy.
I was born May 6th O.S. 1748 at Okbrook
in the County of Derby, where a congn of the Bre
thren had been formed, and which my parents then
served as Labourers. They look me, when two years
old to Mile End in London, and placed me under the
care of a Sister till I was of a proper age to be
admitted into the school, instituted for the children
of Labourers. Soon after the school was removed
to Chelsea, and remained there till my seventh year.
In this my early childhood I remember many drawings


of grace which made me truly and childlikely
love our Saviour above all things.
In 1755 the School was removed to Fulneck.
I was greatly benefitted by this change, many oppor
tunities being afforded us of hearing of our Savi
our's love to children, and of his bitter suffering
and death to save our sinful souls from hell.
This was rich spiritual food for me, and Oh!
how did I enjoy the children's' prayer-days. A
deep sense, that our Saviour claimed my heart
and my all, often drew tears from my eyes. About
this time one of my companions; for whom I felt
particular affection, departed this life. I
cannot express my grief at parting with her. It
raised an ardent desire in my heart; that to
be the next child thus favored. A dream I had and
which was no doubt caused by this occurrence,
not only made a very strong impression on my
mind but served as a warning to me, when ever
my rebellious heart strove against God. I
shall, therefore, relate it. I dreamed, that our
Saviour came into our room, and with a look
that expression of condescending love and benigni
ty, said distinctly, Blessed are the poor in spirit.
He asked each of may companions to him by name
in arrayed them in beautiful attire white and


shining. I trembled, expecting to be called in
my turn; but had the mortification to see my
self clothed with filthy rags. Observing then that I was ready
to go, I burst into tears, fell down at his feet
and implored him to strip me of my rags, and clothe
me with garments, such as he had given to the rest.
Upon this he raised me up with such an affectio
nate look that it penetrated the most immost recesses of
my heart, granted my request and sealed it with
a kiss of pardoning love. The joy and happiness
I felt, seemed too great for my feeble and mortal
body to bear. Hereupon I awoke and, instantly
getting out of bed, kneeled down and fervently en
treated the Lord to take my heart as his property
promising to follow him thro' life. Not know
ing that any of the other children were awake, I 
was startled when hearing the well known voice of my
bosom friend, Anna Rogers, address me, proposing
that we should join together in a perpetual cove
nant with the Lord. This we did in all simplicity;
and in the sequel often reminded each other of it
till her happy departure, which took place eight
years after.
In 1761 I was received among the Girls. I now
entered on unknown trials and made experiences that
greatly distressed perplexed me. My love to our Saviour 


be came fluctuating; I could not comprehend why
I did no longer abide in Him as closely as in my
childhood? My mind was occupied with useless
and unprofitable things. I was uneasy and discon
tent, seeking for the cause in others instead of
myself. So great indeed was the deceitfulness
of my heart, that I wished to conceal from every
observer the my true state, and pass for one of the
better sort. My guilty conscience tormented
me to such a degree that I even wished to
forget our Saviour, harbouring secret enemity
against Him, his precious Word, his suffering on
cross. When, therefore, obliged to read the Bible
I always chose the historical part; neglecting
the nutritious and life giving portion.
April 4th 1764 I moved into the Sr House
at Duckenfield. This change proved beneficial.
The clouds begun to disperse, and my gracious
Saviour sought and found his straying sheep,
made me willing to see and own my errors
and anew extended his mercy to me. He
also granted me the favor, which I had long
ardently desired, of being received in to the congn.
This privilege was conferred on me on the
19th of August in the just mentioned year.
Now I foolishly fancied, my happiness would
never be interrupted; but I was soon undeceived


for it was not long before I relapsed into my
former indifference regarding essentials in reli
gion. This induced me to pray with fervor for
leave to quit the world, and for admission into heaven.
But this was not the design of our Saviour
with me. Indeed there was too much of my own
will mixed up with this desire.
On the 4th of May 1767 I entered into
the Sgl. Sisters' choir. My state of heart at the
time made me take this step not without a
feeling of sorrow at leaving my former choir;
yet this transition was attended with blessing,
but it was not lasting. I pierced my soul with
many a wound by forgetting my best and faith
ful friend, and dwelling on former experiences.
I grew proud and self conceited, and fell into a
miserable state of indifference. This was ??? This being
observed by noticed by. The late Sister Dorothy Stoppen noticing the
observing this she gave me she gave me a gentle
reproof. But this, far from having the desired
effect, only hardend me. She therefore took a
suitable opportunity to speak with me, and with
the affection of a mother, put several heart
searching questions to me, patiently waiting for
a reply. At that However I could give no answer;
it would indeed, had I attempted it, only have added


to my confusion. In this dilemma the Lord
by his Spirit worked on my obdurate heart, and
showed me my bare ingratitude. Yet some time
passed before I was truly humbled and contrite,
and before I could believe, that her heart and re
garded my prayers and tears. This produced
great anxiety for my unfaithfulness to such
a kind Saviour appeared unpardonable some,
and I durst not disclose my wretched situation
to any one, knowing, that if I perished, I perished
by my rejecting the offered mercy, and thro'
my own choice. In this distress of my soul
I tried for mercy from the depth of misery to
the unfathomable death of purchased grace
and pardon. The Lord was pleased to regard
my cries, to restore me to favor, and manifest
himself to the eyes of my faith as bearing my
condemnation of the on the tree, to make me
free from the bondage of sin and remove the
burden of guilt from my conscience. As a
pardoned sinner I could rejoice in my salvation.
On the 13th of August 1768 I was for
the first time spectator at the H.C. The Daily
Word was "How precious are thy thoughts unto
me O God; how great is the sum of them!" This


was to me like a refreshing shower after a
long drought. And on the 9th of September
in the year following I was favored to take my
place with the congn at the Lord's table. Bowed
down under a deep sense of my unearthliness, and
the Lord's unspeakable goodness, I rendered unfeigned 
thanks for all his benefits and devoted myself
to Him with soul and body.
In October the same year a fever broke out
in the Srs House, by means of which four of the
inhabitants were transplanted into the Church
above. I likewise was affected with it, and not
expected to recover and not only was willing
and ready to leave the world but rejoiced in the
prospect of seeing my Saviour and being safely
landed in Heaven. Contrary to the expectation
of the doctor, of myself and others, I slowly recovered,
the morbidity of the disorder being carried off by
one open sore in my side, from which I suffered
a long time.
During this period I often perceived
wandering inclination, tho' I had truly expe
rienced the patience and long suffering of Jesus.
Yet I must declare to His praise, that He was
the only object I deemed worthy of my admiration;


and indifference to Him was to me of all sins
the most heinous.
Family circumstances rendered the year
1777 very remarkable to me. My parents, who
had served the congn at Duckenfield for upwards
of eight years were called to Okbrook. Their
frequent conversations with their children on spiritual
subjects led me to serious reflection, and proved
a stay to my wavering faith. I recollect with
peculiar pleasure the time my Brother, Samuel,
spent in our midst, previous to his voyage to An
tigua, being called to the service of the Mission
in that island. No less impressive was my dear
father's parting advice, when he, in a very affec
tionate manner, pointed out to me the neces
sity of devoting myself without reserve to
our Saviour.
The blessings I enjoyed during the Passion
season in 1778, will never be forgotten by me.
While casting a believing look at Jesus expi
ring on the cross, I was so overpowerd, that if the
veil, which hides Him from mortal sight, had
been withdrawn, I must have sunk into eter
nity. The impression of this was so strong, that
I often thought, our Saviour would shorten my
evil days, and take me at this time to himself.


But He appointed differently. My faith and
patience were to be further exercised. For in
1780 after the removal of Sr. Grundy to Baildon,
it was proposed to me to undertake the Girls'
School at Duckenfield. I felt the weight and
importence of the charge committed to me, but
the Lord stood by me, implanted love to the children
in my heart, and blessed my weak endeavors. In
this employment I have spent forty years, partly
here and party at Fairfield, and for two years
I was likewise the mistress of the Sunday School
for Girls.
After A Srs House having been built at
Fairfield, I together with several Sgl. Sisters
from Duckenfield, moved into it in 1785.
Eight years after it pleased our Saviour to call
into eternal rest, in a rather sudden manner,
on Christmas Eve, my beloved father then stationed
as Minister at Duckenfield. I felt this office
??? the more keenly as the wound, caused by the
recent death of my Brother Samuel in Antigua,
after twenty years faithful services as a Missionary,
had scarcely been healed. By God's gracious


providence the severity of this trial was miti
gated by some changes in my situation. My
Sister Mary, who, on my removal to Fairfield,
had suceeded me as mistress of Duckenfield School, being
required to assist my mother during my father's
illness, and being better qualified for it than I
was, I for some time under took her place in
the School. This afforded me an opportunity
of being an ear and eye witness to my dear father's
last ministerial services, which he did not close
till three days prior to his death. And when
I afterwards returned to Fairfield I medita
ted in stillness on the Lord's goodness some
during this trying dispensation. Four
years after, on March 29th 1798 my dear
mother was favored to enter the mansion
of eternal bliss.
Owing to the increasing infirmities of the
Mistress of the Place School for Girls at Fairfield, it was in
1803 proposed to me to undertake the principal
charge of this institution. I soon felt convinced
that this proposal can proceeded from the
Lord and therefore accepted it, relying on His
help, who graciously regards the smallest


service performed for His sake. In this
Viewed in this light it appeared a favor to me
and I thought, What poor mortals are we! Often
things trying to flesh and blood act as spurs to
patrons to God. This was So it was in my case
and when I was truly poor in spirit nothing proved
too difficult for me; but when I acted in my
own strength and the pride of my heart, I was
sure to meet with a check, if not with a fall.
Yet even His was mercy, divine mercy; and no
sooner was I convinced of my error, than pardon
was offered and may drooping spirit cheered by
a look of Grace. Then, while instructing and
educating others, I was myself taught many
a wholesome lesson in this School, showing to me
the deprevity of my own treacherous heart,
and my constant need of fresh supplies of grace.
Glad and thankful for the means of grace
off off provided in the house of God, to feed the
hungry with the Words of eternal life, I never
without necessity absented myself from the
assembly of the saints. And when I observed others
negligent in improving this privilege, the petition
often fell from my lips, "Feed me, O Lord, and
give to each of us hunger and thirst after Thee.


Hunger will impel them to take food." In
more instances than one have I had the satis
faction to witness, that my secret ejaculations
were heard and answered. This excited gratitude
to my gracious Lord and enhanced the value
of the privilege to attend his holy ordinances.
I found this absolutely needful to preserve in
my soul the life of faith to kindle a fresh
the flames of love to him, and confirm my
hope, that all my sins and trespasses are
drowned in the ocean of his mercy. I am a
miracle of Grace, and a witness to every discon
solate sinner, that reads, or hears, this narrative,
that none is too vile, since I, even I have obtained
mercy. Let them only apply to our Saviour
the ocean of his love is not dry, nor ever will
be. If unable to utter a single word, sighs
will reach and touch his compassionate
heart. Increase my spark of love to Thee
most gracious Saviour, and accept my
grateful praises for preserving me in connec
tion with thy ransomed people. Oh! let my
soul, as a sheep of this favored flock, be found
in the bundle of the living, onthe day of
thine appearing.


December 18th 1818. Feeling of late the infir
mities of age increasing upon me, I laid my
circumstances is prayer before my best, tho'
unseen, Friend, who had hither to supported me,
entreating Him to for grace cheerfully to reign
into his hand the trust he had committed to
me in the School, and not to put my faith and
confidence to shame, regard whatever trials I may yet
have to encounter, but fill my habitation with
His peace, and let me enjoy a sweet Sabbath, a
blessed preparation for a blissful eternity. I
gave vent to my feelings in expression somewhat
like the following "My gracious Saviour, carry
on thy work in me, while absent from Thee,
till Thou hast completed it. Pardon, blot on
and rememher no more the many errors com
mitted by me in the work Thou did didnt assign
me to do. Bless, yea bless abundantly every one
of these lambs of the flock, whom thy kind pro
vidence did from time to time place under my
care. Thou, who art well acquainted with all my
thoughts and ways, knowest, that their prosperity
lay near my heart, that the things pertaining
to their eternal happiness, were uppermost in my
mind, and that from tender love to them, I delighted


to direct their infant souls to Thee, from whom
every good proceedeth, to lessen their wants to 
Thee, and expect relief. I failed not to remind
them, that great were the privileges they enjoyed
of being instructed in the way of peace, to read for
themselves thy holy Word, to remember the pain
thou underwentest to purchase their salvation;
thus would they, when in after life they met
with various trials, experience thy gracious
help, and at the close of their mortal race be
prepared for this eternal kingdom. A few instan
ces I have witness of the good effect of my feeble
endeavers, before they left this world. Many more
would undoubtedly have come to my knowledge
if I had been free from all self working. I humbly
thank Thee, O Lord, for what I have seen, and above
all for thy election of Grace, that Thou, accor
ding to thy promise, hast borne me on eagles
wings, even to haury hasred."
I may still notice, that in my younger days
I wished to be actively engaged in our Saviour's ser
vice, as all were all my relatives on both my father and
mother's side. Alas! I was blind to my unfitness
but our Saviour knew me, and orderd it much
better for me. In the society of thou, whom he ap
pointed to serve in his Church militant, I was


happy and sympathized with them in their labour,
delighted when God crowned them with ???
and agrieved when they met with trials and discou
ragements; and they in their part were kind to me.
If it had been left to myself to order my course
I could not have mended it. I enjoy liberty of
from my own experiences
speech, and can direct any poor wanderer into
the right path for obtaining peace. If they take
my advice, then do I truly rejoice, and have all I 
count essential in my care.
Apraisal being made to me to take the spi
ritual oversight care of the by Sisters, belonging to the
congn at Duckenfield, I moved thither in February
1829, and found the situation much more
agreeable than I had expected, gladly devoting
the little strength and time, still granted me, to the
service of my Heavenly Friend. Being /while wri
ting this/ near 73 years old, I think, I shall not be
able to hold out much longer. Unfeigned thanks
be to my faithful Saviour. He hath been to me
every thing needful, and has rendered my sabbath here
truly pleasant. But I must own with shame, that
the wanderings of my corrupt heart at times divert
my thought for from Him, and I need his patience
and long suffering to my life's end. If at that


awful how He safely conducts my departing
spirit into His presence, my only plea will be;
Here come I sinner; I would fain
Thro' thy atonement entrance gain.
After a stay of about 4 years at Ducken
field, I returned an Fairfield on Dec. 21. 1824
I found much cause for thankfulness for this change,
as well as for deep humiliation. The Increa
sing bodily infirmities made me resolve to
spend my last days at Fulneck with my few
dear relatives, now resideng at Fulneck. I went
thither is 1826, lodged dear for some time with
my dear Br. & Sr. Jas. Latrobe, and under their
roof enjoyed a truly sabatic rest. In the ???
I took a room in the Srs House, where I now
feel quite at home, wi participating with all
my heart is the weal and woe of every individual
of inhabitant.
O Lord, thy goodness and mercy have follow
me all the days of my life; and thy precious
Holy Word hath been a lamp to my feet thro' this
howling wilderness, and served for encouragement,
correction and reproof, and afforded the sweetest
comfort to me a poor and guilty sinner, firmly set
ing on the truth of thy promises. Oh! how have
they added to my relief!


A very brief account of her the last days of our late
Sister is all that need be added to the preceding rela
tion of the principal events in her life and of her Christian
experience. The closng period, of between four to
five years which she spent in the Srs House here showed
that he had laid a sure foundation of her faith,
which was in her an influential principle, no
less when depressed by the infirmities of old age
than while her stren health and strength enabled
her to be actively employed engaged as promo
ting the good of her friends and neighbours, and
at the same time enjoying for her person the com
forts granted to those faithful servants, who
employ their respective talents, whether many
or for, in advancing their Lord's kingdom upon
earth. When, therefore He came to reckon with
this his servant she could render her account with joy.
Her last illness begun towards the end of
October but did not assume an alarming charac
ter till about a week before her departure. In
vain did her medical attendent try to mitigate the acute
bodily pain she suffered. The hour of his final
sclouse from all earthly misery was come; but
her Lord, not less wise than gracious in all his dis
pensations, ordained this painful trial as a last


exercises of her faith and patience His ???
supported her in the furnace of affliction, that
so that she did not lose her confidence in our Sa
viour; stayed upon Him her mind was kept in
she was relieved from
perfect peace. On Satturday the acuteness of
her sufferings was mitigated, so that she could
spend the Sunday in comparative ease. In the
evening some friends assembled in her room,
and joined in singing a few verses. In confident
prayer she was commended in the blessing grace
and blessing of the Lord in the prospect of her
speedy departure. Before the company had
risen from their knees she cast an affectio
nate look at each, and with much solemnity
and emphasis, several times repeated, Farewell
farewell! This scene will not easily be for
gatten by those who witnessed it. The presence
of the Conquerer of death was sensibly felt; that
the conflict of the flesh seemed already overcome
by the triumphant joy of the immortal spirit
winging its flight to the region of eternal bliss.
In this blessed frame the patient still passed 34 hours
retaining her recollection to the very last. Every
now and again she repeated the lines of an old
Hymn, "Don't disturb me now -- ask not what
I do Ask not what I do I go thro' the vale


to meet him - Jesus comes, and I must greet
him - Don't disturb me now - Ask not what I do."
The nearer she approached the confines of time,
the more did her joy increase Agains and again,
she exclaimed; "O how glorious! My Saviour is
come. This is paradise; this is heaven! I 
shall ever dwell with Him." Without a sign
or as struggle her emancipated spirit left its
earthly tenement, and soared on high very early
in the morning of November the 15th, 1831.
Our late Sister deservedly obtained the 
esteem of all, who knew her; and that esteem
will not be lessened by a perusal of the foregoing
narrative. However simple and unardened its
style, it pourtrays a character, which exhibits
the lineaments of an humble, but sincere decided
and far believer; and a decided and faithful
follower of Jesus. He was her all and is all.
Th God had blessed her with a sound understan
ding, which she did not leave unimproved, but 
stored her mind with useful knowledge; and that
knowledge she was ever ready to communicate
to others. Her assiduity in the instruction of
children will be gratefully remembered by


very many, who enjoyed that instruction, not
a few of whom, we may confidently hope, will
one day rise up and call her blessed, not only for
conveying to their infant minds the rudiments
of human learning, but above all for ??? into their
minds love to Jesus and faith in Him as their
Saviour. When surrounded She was never
happier, than when surrounded by the children
in the school, or visiting them ins their families;
and her affectionate treatment never failed to
elicit love and confidence as well as respect
on their part. When acting the part of an
instructor, adviser and friend of children she
was and young people, she was in her proper ele
ment. For this occupation the Lord had evi
dently designed and fitted her, and in her care
ful attention to it, she as truly served Him
as if she had accompanied a Missionary, and
shared in his labours and toils to wise souls for
Christ is a Heathen land.
She popessed a facility for putting her
thoughts into rhyme, and often gratified her
friends by tokens of affection of this kind,
especially on festive occasions. Though


these compositions are devoid of can claim no poetic merit,
they never failed to always pleased as marks proofs
of genuine friendship by fixing the attention
on Him, to whom all her talents, who the less as
well as the greater, were enumerated.
Her strong attachment to the Brn Church
might be accounted for on the ground of her
having been born and nurtured within her its
pale, and her father being a worthy Minister
of the same it. But whatever weight this cir
cumstance might had in influencing her
mind in early youth; the decided preference
she gave to it in mature years was cured
on as mere solid foundation, without de
tracting from the orthodoxy of other Christian
communities, or undervaluing their zeal and
usefulness in the cause of pure and undefiled
religion; she considered the plainness and sim
plicity with which the Brethren direct their
teachers to our Saviour, as a a very precious jewel
as their ministry. For, while this leaves each
individual to entertain his own opinion on points
of doubtful interpretation, the spirit of unity
that knits together the members in love, is preserved
by having, constantly the one object of paramount
importance set before them.


Moreover she valued the Church, to which
she belonged, because she had found, as her own
experience, and that of many others, that its institu
tions and regulations were adapted to the charac
ter and circumstances of men as sinners, to pro
mote in them the life of faith in the Son of God, and 
this preparing each in his sphere, to serve the Lord
with uprightness of heart here below and be made
meet for an inheritance among the saints in heaven.
She had been is full connexion with this com
nuty her nearly 70 years. During this long pe
riod she had witnessed various changes in its exter
nal discipline, yet this did not diminish her attach
ment to it, nor shake her confidence, that the 
Lord would continue to guide it as a chosen flock of
His. Whatever predilictions she felt for those
form and orders, under which she had received her
call of Grace from the Lord, she knew they were but
helps for making her election sure. As she says
herself in her Narrative, she had learned to discri
minate between the essentials in religion, and matter
things of mere expediency. If she feared the declen deterio
sion ration of the Church, she sought her the cause not
in the change of the outward system, but is the luke
warmness of some of its members is the declension
from primitive, love zeal and simplicity, in the forgetting
that compliance with God's command, My son give
me thine heart is the very soul of genuine simplicity
 in attention to which can be compensated.


of by no external forms and modes, however wieely framed and zealously
adhered to. For arrival of this spirit thro' the whole Church she often
and fervently prayed, as the surest guarantee, that her candlestick shall
not be removed out of its place.


