2. Anne Watson, aged 16 years.
She died early in May 1837 after a lingering illness.
She was a striking instance of the good effects of Sunday
school, and also a blessed proof of the faithfulness of the 
lost shepherd in leading the lambs of His flock to His
fold, and screening them amidst temptation. In meek
ness and humility this yong girl had sat at the feet of
Jesus, and learnt lessons of eternal truth from the word
of His mouth. She was one of the tender plants that
grew up and flourish unnoticed by the eye of man.
It was only a few months ago that her parents and
their family came to reside in this village. Judging
from the general conduct of the family no one woud
have expected, that to find so rich a gem among such rough
unpolished stones. Hearing of her illness I determi
ned to visit her, tho' I scarce expected a welcome
reception from the inmates of the house. But I shall
never forget my visits to this poor girl; they belong
to the most agreeable portion of my labour. The first
time I called I found her lying in a most deplorable
condition, almost worn out by consumption and too
weak to sin; the general appearance of the house also and
of the chamber in which she lay, showed that hers was the
abode of poverty. But tho' weak in body, she was
strong in faith, and tho' poor she fc ?]nned all things,
having the pearl of great price. Instead of needing,


as I had suffered, instructions in the way of salvation
she was blessd with the knowledge of an advanced Christian,
combined with such genuine humbleness of mind, never imagi
ning that she knew more than others, or making
any boast. The spirit of the lowly Jesus of Nazareth
rested upon her. Asking her the ground of her faith and
hope, and what enabled her to look forward to death
with such complacence and even welcoming?, she replied,
"Jesus died for me on the cross, and He is good to all,
that put their trust in Him." I continued, "And do
you put your trust in Him?" "Yes, I do," said she
"I love love Him, and I believe He loves me; He came
to seek and save sinners." I again questioned her, "Where
my child, did you learn this?" Never shall I forget
the look she gave me, and the smile that brightened up
her counteance while she replied, "I learnt it in my
Bible, sir." 
She had been a scholar in a Sunday school before
she came to live here; and amidst all the sin and 
depravity in her father's house and in the mill, where
she worked, her soul had imbibed the sincere milk
of the Word; the lamp of life had enlightened her under
standing, and she had found her way to the cross of Christ
where Jesus had spoken peace to her soul. Without
any human teacher of divine things, or anyone who knew
what was paning in her mind, the Word of God was her
guide and light, and, according to her mothers testi
mony, this blessed book had been her constant com
panion during her illness the Bible lay under her


pillow, and the precious texts, stored in her memory
were her daily food. On the day of her death, when
suffering excruciating pain, she expressed the feelings
of her heart and her joyful confidence in that Divine
Friend, on whom she depended, by repeated the
23d Psalm: "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not
want." She was indeed a sheep of Jesus the 
Good Shepherd, who had led her to the green pa
stures of His Word and beside the still waters of His
grave, who healed all her infirmities and was with
her in the valley of the shadow of death.
Her submission to the will of the Lord was
strikingly evident. Being once asked by a friend
if she wished to get better, she replied, "As it pleases
God." The question being put to her, what she would
ask if the Lord should say to her, as to Solomon, "Ask
what I shall give them" - she looked very thoughtful
and said, "I would first ask Him what I should say." 
As the days of her mortal pilgrimmage drew to
a close she showed great concern for the souls of
her companions; and many were the touching ap
peals, accompanied with fervent prayer, and the ear-
nest exhortation she addressed to them. "Do not," she 
would say, "ah! do not trifle with eternal concerns;
turn to Jesus, He is the Good Shepherd. You must


soon die; but Jesus will save you from eternal
death if you believe in Him, And we shall meet
again in Heaven." She further manifested her de
sire for the spiritual good of others by requesting
that a Funeral sermon might be preached on
the Text, "Remember now thy Creator in the days
of thy youth." Eccles. XII.1 A vast crowd of young
people attended, and from the stillness and attention
which prevailed, I cherish the hope, that the Lord
made it a blessing to some.


