went home March 4th 1770
Mary Whitikar was born at Hallifax Sept 28th
1749 and was baptised in the Church of England. From
her Infancy she was quite a simple Child and had no
relish for the World. When she was about 5 years
old, she loved to go with her Father to hear the Me
thadists, which she continued to do till she was in her
tenth year, when then she went with her Sister to hear the
Brn at Stanery, and was uncomonly pleased with
the Childrens Meetings, which the constantly frequented
and often rejoiced exceedingly, when she come home
again, about what she had heard of our dear
Savr and used some times to say, I shall never
forget what I have heard this day as long as I
live; But then she used to say again to her Sister:
I am very much troubled, because I don't know
how to express myself to our Savr as I could
wish. But soon after this, she heard once a Br
say in the Childrens Meeting, that our dear Savr
required no more of us than to say: dear Savr have
Mercy upon me!  which pleased her exceedingly
saying: this suits me and I will always tell him
this. In her 17th year she got a Consumptive
Disorder, and believing that this would prove
the Course of her going home, it brought her to
reflect so badly about her heart, and finding


herself distant from and dry towards our Savr
she cry'd many heavy Tears on account thereof and
said: the I have been preserved awkwardly from
evil things, which others have come into, yet I
feel I am not a Hair better, but have a very wicked
Heart; and from the Sense she had of her Badness and
being not quite clear understood with our dear Savr about it
it provided she that in the Begining of her illness she has
no thing to go home yet; But our dear Savr gave her
a feeling of his great love and Grace, which not only
banish'd from her all that unwillingness to go to him
but she on the contrary wish'd for nothing more ardently
than to be soon with him. She was now quite chear-
full and in a child like and  simple Connexion with our
Savr, but in the midst of which she long'd and beg'd
to be received into the Congn and to be barryd in Fulneck.
the first, namely her Reception into the Congn she expe-
rienced in her 19th year on her sick bed, and of the
latter she was like wise asured, which gave her an
uncommon joy. She spent now her time of Sickness
in the greatest serenity, and when the Time of her dis-
order would be some times very great she used to be
much troubled, lest she might grieve her dear Savr.
Her favorite Hymn which she most constantly sung
when she was by herself was; To the Lamb stained with
Blood. Br. and Sr. Zander, as also the single
Srs, considering their distance, visited her often, which
was always a great joy and comfort to her.


about a Week ago she got a very severe Fit, in
which we thought she would have gone, but she revived
again, and was in this last Week more happy and
chearful then ever before, that she as a poor Sinner
should soon have the Grace to be with our dear Savr.
a few Hours before her departure she said: a little
more Patience and all will be over, and then she cry'd
out: o my dearest sweetest Jesus come and fetch me
now which also came to pass directly after namely on
the 4th of March in the morning in the 21st year
of her age.


