Sarah Whitehead born at Streal in the parish
of Tong March 20 1732 her parents being presbtr
she was Educated in that way, till in the 17 year of
her age, she went to live with her uncle at
Halifax, and as she was one day standing at the door
Brothr. Helt road by, she look'd Steadfastly at him
and was Supriseingly struck with his Heavenly Mien
and thought surely that is a Man of God, beleiveing He
was one of the so calld Brethn belonging to the people at
fulenneck, this made such an Impression on her Heart
and from that Hour she felt a real Compunction & desire
that she might Once belong to that people, for she
certainly beleived them to be the Children of God
She then resolved to leave that place & return unto
her Mother at Holm in Order to be nearer the Brn
that she Might injoy the Oppertunities of hearing
The Gosple preachd
from That time she was sensibly
convinced that it was our dear Savr who had so powerfully
opperated upon her Heart, & Meeting with no Objections
she hastend as much as possable to accomplish her
desire & call.
The dear Mother thee Holy Ghost workd
powerfully on her Heart, & soon let her feel the need
she had of a Redeemer, which made her Cry what
shall I do to be Saved.
In this distress of mind she resolved within herself
to go & speak with and the Single Sistr, accordingly
she did, in a very childlike & Open hearted Manner


Her Sistr spoak words of comfort to her & in a little
time after she was receivd into the Society.
The desire of her heart daily increase to be in a nearer
& closer Connection with the S Sistrs & she wishd much to be
taken into the Oeconomie but as there was no room her
request coud not be Granted at that Time, but on March 20th 
1762 she went to live with some young women belonging the
Society, were she still kept faithfull to her first call &
constant attentiveness to the teachings of the dear Mother
under whose blessd Man eduction she was soon brought to
be acquainted with her dear Mayrtd Spouse
Her longing desire much increased after that wishd for Grace
of becoming Once a Member of the dear congregation &
woud often Sigh & say I can hardly beleive such a favour will
be granted me I'm such an unworthy Creature, but however in
real Confidence of My dear Lamb I will still beg for it &
On the 13 of Nov the same year her Earnest longing desire
was Granted, to her Supriseing joy & abasement, for this
Great Grace, the thro' pirced feet of her faithfull
lover got many a Magdelen Salute.
Decbr 18 the same year the Sisrs Moveing into their new choir
house at Gracehill it Caused her much Smart she not haveing
leave at that some to go with them, but went with some other
Sisrs to to live in the Oeconomie at Pudsey, were she began
to grow some what unfaithfull to her kind teacher, by
which Means she brought herself into a reasoning way
which Caused her some unhappy hours.
But our dear Saviour out of love & Mercy drew near
to her poor heart again & in a consumeing Manner gave


her to feel that she was cared of from that blessd point
which woud  ??? ???? in all ????? of heart & mind
& felt that she ??? now as a poor sinner afresh on his
Grace & Mercy which she did, and said I know that he loves me
& is my best & kindest friend & I am Much ashamed that I have
kept so long at a distance from him Oh he his my poor
souls lover & I must have a nearer connection with his
dear bleeding Heart or I cannot subsist. She now began
to be very serious & thoughtfull about the Lord Supper
Her heart longd & panted Much after the precious Corpse &
blood of her dearest Jesus, on account which she Earnestly
desired to be rememberd by Sistr Mary who faithfully thought
 on her before her dear & woundd friend. she Graciously
premitted her to be a particapant of his more Corpse & blood in the
blessd saccrement on July 13 54. this proved a weighty and
abideing blessing for her heart.
But yet when she lookd on the
choirhouse it causd her some pain & she woud often say I know
it is My right habittation. I know My Lamb has calld me to 
belong thereto. & on Nov the same year she had the
Grace & favour to become an inhabitant of the same
to her great joy & consolation.
in the Spring of the year 55 she got a cough & a swelling
in her neck, attendd with much pain, she did not think this
woud prove the Ocasion of bringing her to her Eternal rest
at that time, she used Some Means and soon grew better
again, till the fall of the year, on whch her disorder
returnd, worse then before, then it was very preceptable
it woud prove a lingering consumption but yet she


coud not beleive it & said it is Only a little Cold that 
 I have got. being of a carefull dissposition & afraid
of being troublesome to any Caused her some needless
perplexity which she was sencible of. But for all
that she Carryd her sickly tabernacle with great
patience seldom complaining, but went on in a
pritty Still Manner.
Nov 9 57 she was obligd to take
to the sickroom and on the never to be forgoten 13 of the
same month she prosterated herself before her head Elder
& what she felt at that time from the nearness of
her Absolveing Bridegroom she never coud Express
the Efficacy of his presence so penetrated thro' soul & body
to her great comfort & consolation, after this Gracious
Visit she grew better & went into her workroom for some
time were she spent her days in stillness, she being
Generaly and of few words, but when she did speak it
was very perceptable to all, that she live in the 
nearness & confidence of her dearest friend whose
faithfullness she coud rely on, on all Occassions, this
gave the Sister great Satisfaction & increasd their love
much towards her.
In the Spring of the year 58 her dissorder returnd
again & on March the 1 she took to the sickroom the
second Time there she enterd into serious consideration
about her going home, & thought prehaps the Happy
time will now come soon, but yet was afraid to beleive
it or speak much about it, for feard of being dissapoint
in her Expectation of that wishd for hour not coming so
speedy as she wanted it. March 20 being her birthday


Her Class Sistrs made her a love feast, at which she 
was very much ashamed & Expressd her thankfullness
to them for all the love they had shewd her.
Sistr Mary conversed with her about going home, she told
her she beleived that woud be the last birthday she shoud
keep here, & said I realy want & pant Much to be with My
lover who has so faithfully preserved & kept My poor
soul in a continual connection with his dear person.
in her sickness her Mother & sister, who also belong
to the Congn frequently Visitd her, and as her illness still
seamd to be lingernig her Mother askd if she woud go &
live with her little wile to try if change of air woud
make any Alteration to her dissorder, she Answerd
Ah dear Mother how Can you Ask me to leave My
dear choirhouse in which I have injoyd so Much
Grace & blessing in fellowship with My dear Sistrs
from the presance of My bleeding Bridegroom
who calld & destind Me for it from all Eternity &
here I will continue till he calls me into his arms &
bosom, oh My dear Mother the love & tenderness
that has been shewn to Me hear I can never be
thankfull Enough for, coud I fare Ever so thankfully
in any other place Id rather live on bread & water
then prove dissobedient to My call.
Then she bound herself anew
to her faithfull Redeemer & choir, Never to leave
them in Time or in Eternity.
Her Mother was Satisfyd with her answer but concernd
at her self for puting such a Question to her, in July
she grew a little better & returnd again into her


workroom which caused her such pain & tears
that her beloved fetchd her not to himself were she
desired so much to be.
decbr. 28 she was spoaken with for the Lord Supper
were she Simply Expressd her ardent desire to be once
more refreshd by her dear bridegroom in the holy sacrament
in fellowship with the congregation, beleiveing this
woud be the last time she shoud injoy it here below
made for the more anxious to receive it fellowshiply
in the Great hall so that she coud hardly be preswaded
from, tho' the great weakness of over woud admit of so
such thing. she at last was resignd & on her yearsday 
she partook of it for the Last time in her room.
Jany 13 she took to the sick room firmly beleiveing
that her dearest Jesus woud soon prepare & fetch
her to His Eternal Embraces, this Comfortd her
poor heart & she claved closely to him as a poor worm
and said to a Sister with her. Oh I can never tell what
my friend has been to me in the deepest distresses of body
& Mind, Oh yet if I look but unto him he was Ever ready
to assist me in all my needs & necessities, he has never
yet fail to help such a poor worthless worm as I am
on His fidelity will I trust till I shall get permission
to leave this Mortal tent. Thus she continued in a very
sweet & tender dissposition panting for the last kiss
on 18 she sent again for Sistr Mary, & said she shoud
now soon go home, but had first one favour to beg
which was to have her Class drest in white & in the
Night carry her Corpse in to the great hall, which 


was Ganted her, saying I love them Much & when
I come in the presence of My dear Saviour I will then
kiss those dear hands & feet which has been pericd
thro' for them & me, ah then I will remember you &
them. Each particularly & all the rest of My dear sisters
On the 19 she sent for her Mother on seeing her she
said I am very Glad to see you Once more before I go
home, for I wanted to know if you are Satisfyd
about me & Every thing pertaining My burial, to
which her Mother answerd yes I am.
after some conversation her Mother & Sister took a
very tender leave of her.
On the 20 after the sacrement Sr Mary went to her
again & intimated to her what the congregation had
been injoying Asking if she coud be satisfyd to go before
she had once more partook of that dear Corpse & blood
into her dieing tabernacle. She answerd oh yes I woud not
stay one Moment for that but will fly quite Speedy into
the Arms of My dear bleeding bridegroom were I will keep
Sacremts with him for Ever.
Then was sung she soon shall get premission ???
appear as her pertition??
whom shed in want of strength
and when in his arms lastly
her mouth shall pallid grow
Then she with a fluttering Tongue said sing sing some more so the
singing continued till she fell softly asleep on the breast of her
beloved between the hours of a 11 & 12 under the singing of those
words, so go there go dear heart & hide &c.
The feeling in the room ??? ??? ??? in such a
???? manner as will never be forgot by all present


