Life of the widower, Br Timothy Gray, who 
departed to our Svar at Wyke Aug. 11th 1795.
He has left the following account of his course 
thro time. 
I was born Aug. 5th 1719 at North Owram in 
the parish of Halifax. I lived with my parents
till I was 14 years old, when I was put appren-
tice to a cloth maker at Birkenshaw. During
my apprenticeship, I became very uneasy about
the state of my soul, & took to praying & self
working, but soon found, that I could not help
myself. Soon after I became acquainted with
one John Nelson, to whom I could freely open
my mind. Upon his enquiry, I told him, how
I had proceeded, & that with all my endeavors
I could not attain to rest for my soul, but 
found myself as wretched as ever. His answer
was: I find that you are a poor slave of the
devil. He then told me his experience, that
he had been of the same way of thinking, but
had found all laboring in his own strength to be
in vain. He advised me to go to hear Mr Wesley,
he would teach me the right way to heaven. 


me with cards of love to himself. I longed but, as
it were, to touch the hem of his garment, & this 
our Savr graciously granted me, & I felt, that he
owned me as his. About this time I lived with
my Sisters at Birkenshaw, where we were visited
by the Brn, my shyness towards them wore off
by degrees, & I soon had the favor to become a
member of the congn. Now a new school commenc
ed in my heart, I learnt more & more to Know
my natural corruption, but my Savr likewise
granted me the grace to depend more & more upon
him, for which I have great reason to thank
him all my days. Soon after I went by advice
of the Brn to live at Mirfield with John Sheard,
where I staid nearly 2 years, & then spent 4
years agreably with the Brn at Wyke. Then I 
moved into the single Brns choir house at Fulneck
but here I got into company with some of a reas-
oning spirit, whereby I suffered hurt in my soul,
& this provedthe occasion, that I left the Brn
for some time, & came to live at Wyke. Neverthe-
less my Savr held his hand over me, & in his 
due time brought me back to his fold. 
Thus far our late Brs own account.


He was received into the congn at Fulneck, Oct.
admitted to the H Comn in 1749. He married 
12th 1748 & married to his late wife, Elizabeth whose
maiden name was Ubank in 1755, which marriage
was blest with 1 son & 2 daughters, of whom only
1 daughter has survived him, & is now married
to Br Wm Ellis at Hopton. In 1749 he was admitted
to the holy comn with the congn. In 1789 he became
a widower. He has been for many years a respect-
had
able member of this congn, tho he his weak-
nesses & singularities, which sometimes rendered
his course heavy to himself & others, yet amidst
all, it was evident, that his heart cleaved to
our Savr, & that he had sunk down upon him, 
as the only sure foundation. It was always a
pleasure to him to be visited by the Brn & Srs
& he delighted to speak freely with them of what our 
Lord had done upon his soul. He prized his
election of grace to belong to the Brns Congn, & there 
was nothing he regretted so much, when confined
by sickness, as to be deprived of the opportunities
of blessing to be enjoyed by children of God in fel-
lowship. He however endeavored in some mea-
sure to make up for this loss by reading dili-
gently in the bible, & meditating daily in stillness


on the texts of the day, which was his constant 
practise, & whereby according to his own testimony, 
he often received gracious visits from our Savr. 
Of late years, the infirmities of age, & increasing 
bodily weakness, depressed him greatly, & his 
strength declined visibly. His constitution was 
by degrees quite worn out, & he sighed, like a 
weary traveller for repose, longing ardently to 
be released from pain, & at home with his Lord. 
A couple of days before his departure; he declared 
that he had nothing, that lay heavy upon his 
mind, but was ready to go hence with joy, as a 
poor, but pardoned sinner, trusting alone in the 
merit of Christ, & thus he fell gently & happily 
asleep in the Lord, aged 76 years & a few days.


