Sr Mary Oates dictated the following Ap 8th 1812
Thy blood, thy blood the deed hath wrought ye
I was born June 26th 1747 in Great Horton, in the Parish
of Bradford. My father being one of the first Brn there
he was called home to our Saviour when I was only 2 yrs
old, and my Mother was left with five children of whom
I was the youngest, I can remember when very young being
sent to the Children's meetings and liked them very much
and hearing of our Saviours love to children, made an
imprewssion on my heart and that verse; Dearest childn
hark and see, what a Saviour now have we prove'd a bles
sing to me. But yet I sport the years of my youth
without knowing or experiencing much, untill I was
anout 18 years. I had a great desire to live in a Congn but
as I wa sthe only daughter, I could not leave my mother,
It was at that time the custom, that those who lived
in the Country might not have the priveledge to be
re'd into the Congn and to partake of the H Comn. On this
account I felt very unhappy, as it appeared to me that I 
could neither enjoy the Congn nor the World. I now fully,
experienced the truth of that text. The carnal mind is
enmity with God. I felt my sinful inclinations, and the
desire to enjoy the World, so strong that I sometimes
thought; I did not care what became of me, I said once in
my grief, I will never be in the Congn yet my heart condemnd
me. One night when I had fully determined to drop all
connection with the Brns people. 
I recd a hurt on my


neck in fetching water from a well; I suffered great pain,
and was brought into a very weak state of health. As soon
as I was able I went to Fulnec, and called to see Sr Seidel
who was then the Labouress, she looked earnestly at me
and asked what I thought, for if the hurt had turned
inwardly, I might have died in a moment, this was
like a thunderbolt to my soul. I went to the preaching
but could hear nothing for misiry feeling that I was not
let to die. I returned home but had no rest. reflecting
on my unhappy state, my earnest pray'r and desire
was now that our Saviour would pardon all my sins.
At that time there much said in the meetings,
if we had any 
that clearness of our sinfulness, we should see our Saviour
in his crucified form, this brought me into self working
and I thought that I never could be saved unless I had
that particular manifestation in which I heard it describd
However one morning when I awoke, it was as if our
Saviour said to me. I know the thoughts which I think
towards thee, thoughts of peace? that word peace.
comforted my heart, and has always been something
to me thro my future course, This was in my 23rd
year. I now felt a great desire to be recd into the Congn
that favour was granted me April 12th 1773. and the 
peace of God which I felt on that occasion, I shall
never forget. I now spent my time happily and
enjoyed the meetings, when I awoke in the mong
it was my first pleasing thought. I shall hear of
our Saviour to day. I wished much to partake of 


the H. Comn but it was long before that favour was gran
me. A conversation previous to it with the late Br
Tranecker, proved a great blessing to me, He asked if
I had felt a clearness that our Saviour had pardoned all
my sins, to which I answered as mentioned before, upon
he spoke very encouraging words to me, and said that
our Saviours ways were different with every poor sinners.
Decr 8th 1776 I had the favour to partake for the first
time of the H Comn. In 1779 I removed with my Mother
Bankhouse, where I spent 3 years very comfortably, tho
I had many schol schools for my own heart. but our Savior
helped me and proved my faithful friend.
After the happy departure of my dear Mother whom
I nursed to my end, I went to live at Heckmondwyke
to care for my Br Children, where I staid until
June 28th 1783 when I came to the Srs house here.
I entered this house with my whole heart, according
to my wished for desire, and no trials whatsoever have
made me wish to leave it. My own temper and work
made it sometimes trying, but little uneasinesses
were soon settled again, and I can truly say that my
living in this house has proved a Blessing to me.
Where I have learned to know more of myself and of
our Saviours leading
Had I not thee O Lamb of God once bleeding
Were not thy blood for me a sinner pleading
Where should I poorest among all the needy
Find succour ready


In 1799 my Niece Rachel Oats, with whom I had
lived 16 years in the Srs house, was married to Br
Jackson and went to Jamacia, and two months after
oldest 
my Br who had been as a father to me, departed happily
These sircumstances were great trials to me, and made
me look earnestly to our Saviour, for His help even
in externals and He has never put me to shame.
I now commend all my friends and relations to 
the Lord, may He bless them with spiritual &
temporal Blessings and may he help & support
me, thro this Vale of tears till I shall have the
favour to see Him face to face


