I was born at Northarm in the parish of Halifax
May 29 
in the year 1722. My Parents being very religious
endeavour'd to bring me up strictly in the fear of God.
they very early perceiving my natural turn to be quick livly
and active, on that account took the greater care of me takeing
me with them constantly to the Decenters meetings, as I at that
time did not understand their meaning, I look upon it as being
very hardly dealt with, but afterwards saw clearly that their
intentions where only to prevent my entrance on a very loose course
of life which I might have fall'n into, had not their unwearied
care & faithfullness, been a great means of preserving me, together
with an invisible Hand, which I often felt While very young over
me without any knowlidge of the meaning thereof for which I
shall forever remain thankfull, I went on much in this way
till Mr Inham came to these parts, to whose preaching the
greatest part of the people resorting, I went among the rest, being
thereby stir'd up & often brought to reflect on my state, but with
out any lasting impression. I remember one night being very
thoughtfull when going to bed, I dream'd that I was to be put to
death, at which I was very much perplex't, I intreated to be spar'd
while I was set to die. The earnestness I was in awoke me,
but the impression of this I never lost, & by means of the uncom
mon feelings I had somtimes I thought surly there was some
thing to be injoy'd, to which I was as yet a stranger, but was
not rightly satisfy'd to be without it.
came 
In the year 17 the Brethern into Yorkshire with a
to settle societies, accordingly tookdown the names of
those who constantly atended the preaching. I therefore was willing
to have mine taken down, which was no sooner done, but I was
amazingly struck, thinking I am now however fast, but did not
repent it. I soon found it was not alone the taking down the


names but they entended to look more particularly after each one
therefore they soon settled Bands to which I was admitted & geting
a great love for them they were very much blest to me. Some of my
Companions being soon after this receiv'd into the Congregation it
Cause'd me many uneasy hours, as I was left, however I thought
to try & get to them though I knew not how to set about it, when almost
dispairing I often felt exceedingly encouraged and very much strengthened
I was not allow'd to go to the Congn meetings this drove me to the
determination to make my mind known which I did by a letter
to the Congn expressing my greatest desire to be embody'd with them.
My request was soon granted our in year 1745 this was an inex
pressible grace & favour to me past discribing being then very
chearfull I thought I had then got all that could make my happiness
compleat. In this way I went on for some time.
In the year 1747 the first Sisrs Oeconomy was settl'd at Oxhaighs I
having the favour to be one of the first, I look'd on it & accepted it with
a real thankfull heart, & the blessing which I then enjoy'd will never
be forgot by me. This happiness lasted for some time but before I was
aware it all vanishd away and I was left as much distresst as ever
being ready to determin to leave the Sisrs & take my thing in the world but my Consionec would not permit me
on this account I often whr'd to a lonly place, which I had found
quite to my mind, then I often lamented my state without the least
hopes of being helpt through, & sav'd at last but my best & faithfull
friend notwithstanding my negligence followed me endeavouring
to bring me to the place where I at all times bught to have a remaind
er at his feet, he thererfore an Oppertunity to show me my state
by nature & convincd me that noself working would avail me any
thing, but he was willing to take my care on himself. I was hereby
quite overcome, by his asuring me I was his, which so worked on me
that I was determin'd to be his intirly with soul & body, and as a poor
Sinner to receive grace at his hand.


My longing was now daily increased to become a partaker of the
Holy Sacrement which grace was granted me Nov 1747 after
which I believd simply I should yeild more satisfaction to the
Congn & my self. These thoughts brought me into a very loyal
way but could not with my best endeavours effect what I wish for,
and having no Laboress at that time to help & encourage us,
I thought to direct myself, but not being able this way only brought
me into confusion. At last I was convinc'd that even those who were
partakers of his body & blood could lay up no store without a
daily & hourly supply from the fountain from whence all good
springs. Therefore I determin'd to be directed and Influenced
alone by him who has often approv'd himself as my friend in need.
In the year 1748 I mov'd to home Oeconomy where I liv'd a year
Chearfully & satisfy'd then there being a new Oeconomy began
at Littlemoore. I was one that was place'd there where I learnd
to know more of myself and the leading of our Saviour with me
then I was sensible of before. In the year 50 I mov'd again
to the Oeconomy at Conhouse, where I thought to live Chearfully
with the rest of my Companions. 
But here I must observe
I was again disturb'd by my own Corruption of which I thought
before 
I had sufficient Knowledge but found the depth of my natural
Corrupted heart was unfathomable which made me almost
conclude it was unpossible for me to be help to the end of days
I was often encouraged by those about me to
believe I was not to bad for our Savr but to no purpose, till I
felt it scals & made clear to my heart by my best friend. He
often took such oppertunities as these to melt & bow my heart before
him anew, & thereby to make my call & diction of grace of greater
value to me. The same year the Oeconomy mov'd to fulneck
there to reside till the Choir house which was their building,


was finish'd, into which as soon as it was ready, I mov'd with
the first company, at the entrance of which I again renew'd
my Covenant with my dr Savr and partook of the grace
which in a particular manner prevail'd at that time.
here as well as in all other places & during my whole life
notwithstanding 
all failings wants & defects I was alway follow'd
and often comforted by him who has alway approv'd himself
as my only effectual Comforter & Savr. So he will Continue
to me to the end of my days. he has often been so visibly near
my heart as if I had seen him with my bodily eyes, yea I could
Converse with him as with an intimate friend about every
thing. In the year 1760 I had a Call to go to Bedford, as
it was thought best I went out of Obedience at which place
I was receiv'd with so much love & heartiness as I can't express
have often
but I reflected on it with thankfullness, So far Her own 
words
but meeting with difficulties of various sorts, the employment
for which I went there not answering the wish for end,
and having a great desire to return to fulneck, as my
Bodily Health was also much impair'd I made my desire
Known, which after Consideration was consented too & I returnd
Febr 16 1770 Here she liv'd several years in the Sistrs Oeconomy with great
faithfullness till thro bodily circumstances she was oblig'd to retire into the Choir
better 
House there but finding Her She defin'd & obtaind  leave
to remove back again to The Choir House in Fullneck where she arriv'd Feb 16 1770


