our late Sing Br Joseph Carr has left the following account of 
himself.
I was born in Pudsey Aug. the 27th 1764 of poor Parents & baptized by the Brn at
Fulneck, I used constantly to attend the public preachings at Fulneck, till my
Father put me apprentice; when I was about 13 years old, to one Willm Harrison
a Taylor at Stanningly, where I got acquainted with a neighbour, which
proved a great detriment to me: when his wife died, he used to get me to
keep his house for him, as he was a shopkeeper, while he went to the markets; &
on Sundays he would take me with him to public houses, & into unprofitable
company, so that at last it became quite indifferent to me, whether I went
to any place of worship or not as my acquintance cared for the expense,
& I began to consider myself as my own master, I paid no regard to any
admonitions, that were given me, but I thought I had met with a very
good Companion. My master in particular used to tell me, that he hoped
I should See the time, when I should think him not my friend, but I treated this
observation with disregard & slighted what he said, because he was a 
methodist. When I was loose from my Master, having lived with him 7
Years, I continued to go in in my old course, keeping company with my
friend (as I then looked upon him) the above unprofitable acquaintance. 
About a year after I had left my Master, it pleased our Savior to vi-
sit me with a heavy sickness, so that no one thought I should recover.
I made a promise at that time, that if ever I got better again, I
would forsake my wicked ways & turn as a poor Sinner to our Savior,
but alas when I got well again, I went in as before, forgot entirely
my promise, & associated again with my former hurtful Companion.


my Sister who belonged to the Brns Congn was much grieved about me,
and tried to persuade me be attend the preaching at Fulneck, when she
went thither. I went once with her on a Sunday in the afternoon, when
I heard the late Br. John Miller ??? read some accounts concerning the In-
dian Congn in North America, & afterwards keep a Discourse. I was 
struck at hearing how much sooner the poor Indians were brought to the
Knowledge of our Savior than such a wicked man as myself. Br
Miller came down after to see my Sister & as I was at work in the same
room he addressed himself to me, & after speaking in a friendly way
with me he invited me to call & I see him. I went down after, &
made known to him my desire to join the Brn & soon after I was
received into the Society, & became acquainted with the Sing Brns
Labourer, & used to spend the time between the meetings in the S. Brns
house: I little expected then, that I should once come & live in it
as I considered it to be too high a favor for such a great Sinner,
as I then felt myself to be; I got leave also to come to the Choir-
meetings on Sunday mornings, which was a real blessing to me. 
March 29th 1790 I came to live in the Brns house; & it being the passion
Week I attended the meetings, which made an abiding impression
upon my heart. Decr 14 1791 I got leave to be an Inhabitant
of Fulneck to my great Joy, & on the 26th of decr I was received into
the Congn & since then, tho' trials have not been wanting; our Savr
has sanctified them, a help'd me thro' them all, for which I cannot
sufficiently thank him: and I trust he will continue to lead me on
to the end, poor & needy as I am.
Thus far our late Brothers our account of himself.
June 2d 1772 he was Spectator at the holy Comunion, & aug 29th


he partook with us of the Comunion. For some years past he has been
sickly, & in march last, it appeared as if his complaint would termi-
nate in a Consumption: his Laborer adds concerning him: He was a Bro-
ther of few words, but the feeling attending what he said, as well as the 
earnest desire, which he often expressed during his Sickness to go to our Savr,
showed clearly, that he loved him: being once asked, whether he thought
he should see the beginning of an other year? his answer was: no our Sa-
vior has made it clear to me, that I shall go before the next Comunion.
He departed gently & happily decr 5 th 1796 & is now at rest.
In some papers found after his departure, he writes under Novr 13th
1791. This was a very blessed day to my poor soul our Savior let me see
what a thoroughly depraved & Spoiled Creature I am & that without
him I am nothing but Sin & misery, but thanks he to his name for
the blessings, which I receive from him from time to time: aug 29th 1792
I partook of the Holy Comunion for the first time: I cannot express in
Words, what a nearness of our Savior's love to poor Sinners I then
experienced. I began the year 1793 trusting in our Savior's merits, &
praying him to keep me ever in remembrance of his death & sufferings
endured on my account a poor Sinner, thanking him likewise for
the many favors & blessings I had received at his hand in the year
past. aug 27 1793 (being his birth day) now I begin an other
year: O Lord, be near to me, & let me have thee in my mind both
day & night, I pray.


