The Life of the Single Sister Sarh Craven
who departed 10th N 1790
 I was born at Bothwell near Leeds in
the have Nov 11th 1717. I lived with my
Parents till my Father died who belonged
to the Church of England. When I was a
Child  I often wished to die, for I thought at
that age I should be saved; but if I lived to
grow up to be a Woman I should come into
things which would hinder me from at-
taining eternal happiness. When I came into
riper years, I followed the World with ea-
gerness, tho' not with satttisfaction; for I often
felt ureasy in my mind but put if off,
resolving to grow better, but still went on
in my old way. After my Father's death
I went to live with my Uncle & was with
him when Mr Ingham came into those
parts but soon after went to live with my
Mother; she asked me to go with her to
hear Mr Ingham preach, but I declined it
for this reason, I believect if I was one of
his followers I must denounce the World,
which was my chief Object at that time,
soon after he came again to preach nearer
to our habitation) will Mother urged me to
go with her which I could not now help
complying with, tho court spiritually clear-
& the discourses had no effect & I wondered


what induced people to run after him:
my Mother invited him to preach at our
House but he did chuse to do it except we
would have a Society setted to which she
consented. In the mean time my Mother
spoke very closely to me about the state.
of my Soul; thus prepared I went to hear
him again. During his Sermon, I was made
sensible of my lost condition, I wished I could
alter & thought I had better be deprived of
this Worlds pleasure then lose my immor
tal Soul. I thought I could part with every
thing I had in the World to be assured of
may salvation, but feared it was impossible 
In this miserable state I continued a long
time, & came into selfworking by degrees
my misery wore off & concluded this was
the right way to do all the good that was
in my power so my confidence was to be
appeased, but being of a hasty temper &
sometimes overcome with passion my good
opinion of myself vanished & I became mi
serable again. In the year 1740. Mr Ing
ham & Br Tellsheg came to our house. the
latter could not speak English, but his look
made a particular impression on me & I
believed him to be indeed a Child of God.
In a short time after his visit our Society,


was dispersed, which troubled me very much
One of them & myself desired desired to be
admitted into another Society, which was
the case soon after with a small company
at Hollbeck near Leeds. But not having
the pleasure to see Brn & Srs often, I grew my
in my heart Upon being asked to be a
Servant in a Family, I at first refused but
being earnestly intreated, I at last accepted
& went to the place. I was soon uneasy in it
for I found I had no freedom to mix with
worldly company, but was obliged to stay
my time out. The night before I left my
place I opened drew that Verse & When I
was lost & far had strayed Into a Desart
wild etc. The day after when I was with
my Mother, some Sisters came to see me,
I told them what had passed, they act advised
me to make a new begining, & then our
Saviour & the Brn would forgive me. These
words comforted me for I did not expect
to hear such of them. The first meeting
after their visit that I went to, Mr Tellsheg
kept on the following words, ye cannot
serve two Masters. it seemed as if he di-
rected his discourse to me alone and 
take no determined to have our Saviour for


my Master & him alone. The short time
after I was advised to live with two Sisters
in Hollbeck I did so, but my sittuation was
not at first agreable to me, I did not
remain long with them, being desired by
Br Teltsheg to go to Leeds to wait on a
Sick Sister, but soon became sick myself
as I had then no money left to help me the
future I was persuaded to live my Mother 
with whom I remained till she died.
The day before her departure, a Sister
visited her & asked her where she would
like to have me sittuated; she replyed
amongst Sisters, But after her Death
I felt such a strong attachment to my
Relations that I thought I could not part
with them which brought me again into trou
ble, & quite at a loss what to do. When I was
by myself, my faithful Moniter convinced
me once more that I was not in my right
place to stay there would be dangerous
for my Soul. I immediately set off to ac=
quaint my former Labouress, & disclosed
my whole case. She recommended me to
another Family in Hollbeck, this was in
the year 1750. I attended the Preaching
in Fulneck every Sunday, Br LaTrobe


Sermons were a real blessing to me, & I
frequent imagined, that he know my in-
most thoughts. I had no rest day, nor
night, on account of the burden of my
sins. One day as I was by myself ear-
nestly entreating our Saviour to mani=
fest himself unto me, he granted my re
 quest & gave me a full assurance of the
forgiveness of my sins which came with
such power, that it melted me into tears
from this time & particularly during my
stay in that Family, I received many
blessings form our Saviour. This was also
a particular period with the Brethren's
Congregation, their enemies in these parts
were not affraid to prognosticate their
ruin, notwithstanding this I wished for a
still closer union with them, & importuned
to be admitted a Member of the Congregation.
The two Srs with whom I lived having departed
this life it was thought proper for me to
leave Hollbeck, & I was placed at last to my
great joy in the Single Sisters Oeconomy at
gummersall, May 20th 1755 & was soon at
hone with them, tho' it proved a new school


for my heart. The 3d of March 1756 I was in
formed would be a general Congregation Day
I got an impression that on that day I should
have the favour to be added thereto. I there
fore kept a band with our Saviour, sensitive
of my poverty & helplessness, yet comforted
with his nearess. In this sittuation of mind
according to my impression, I was received
into the Congregation on the above mentioned
day which proved a great blessing to me
Thus for her own account
April 20th 1756 our late Sister removed
from Gumersal to live in the Choir House
here. March 21st 1757 she partook with
the Congn of the holy Comunion for the
first time. It was evident, notwithstand
ing all human imperfections that she
had found her peace in our Saviour.
She knew in whom she believed and was
persuaided that he was able to keep
that which she had commited to Him.
which helped her through evry trying
circumstance she met with. her call
to belong to a Congn of those she valued
highly and often spoke of it with the greatest


greatest gratitude. It was a particuliar
pleasure to her to serve her Sisters in
any little matters she was able to do,
which she did with great faithfullness
so long as her Strength wou'd admitt
of it. The begining of this year an
Asthmatick complaint which she had
labourd under many Years, grew very
troublesom to her, so that she was obliged
in Jany to moove into the sickroom,
when her longing to be at home with our
Saviour increased daily. It gave her much
pain when two of her companions in the
sickroom was called home before her.
She suffer'd much in her Sickness which
made her sometimes rather impatient
and think the time long, but she wou'd
soon recolect herself again, and intreated
our Saviour to give her a childlike resig
nation to his will that she might not
grieve him by her impatience.
the night before her departure, she said


said, I am waiting for our Saviour to
come and fetch me, he will not be long
now before he comes, I shall then see
him for myself sickness & Sorrow will
have an end, he will wipe all tears
from my Eyes, that night She spent
in great Weakness, but in converce
with her best Friend, Novr 10th
the happy moment came when she
departed in a soft and easy maner
to her dear Redeemer with the
blessing of her Choir, half past
10 oClock in the forenoon, during
a Sincible feeling of our dear Lords
presents, in the 72d Year of her
Age.


