Memoir of the Life of our late venerable & 
happily departed Br Peter Jacob Planta, who 
entered into joy of his Lord, at Ockbrook, 
May the 6th 1815, in the 94th year of 
his age, written by himself.
I was born at Jonkioping a town in
Sweden, Dec.r the 5th, old stile in the
year 1721. My Father's name was Jacob
Planta & my Mother's maiden name
Martha Ruda. They were both of the
Lutheran Religion. I had two sisters,
the elder was born during my Mother's
marriage to her first husband, whose
name was Peter Hilling. Our Parents
spared no pains in giving us a religious
& genteel education; we had morning
& evening prayers in the family, to
which the servants were also admitted.
My dear Mother would often read in
the bible, & after prayers, used to re
late to us pleasing scriptural his
tories, especially such as had a reference
to the life, sufferings & death of our
dear Lord & Saviour, & also his conversations 


with his disciples & some of the persecut
tions which the latter had to endure for
his sake. On such occasions I used to
sit on her lap, & sometimes asked what
reward the disciples had for their faithful
ness to our Saviour: to which she replied:
"They are richly rewarded for they are now
exceeding happy with Him in his heavenly
kingdom, singing his praises, & adoring
him for ever! I said with tears, O my
dear Mamma, I wish that I had lived at
the time our Saviour was upon earth,
I also would have served him & suffered
for his sake. My Mother replied weeping,
my dear child, if you had lived at that
time you might perhaps have been of
the number of those who cried out, cru
cify him! crucify him! I said, O no, I never
would, but I should have loved him dearly.
She then blessed me, & prayed the Lord to
keep me as his property, & to preserve
me throughout my future life from sin,
& the seductions of this evil world, until
I should be with him in his heavenly
kingdom, & then added that all those who
loved & served him here, would share
in the same blessings which his disciples
did. - This made a deep impression on my
mind, & was the first time when I  


but to have felt a real & tender love &
attachment in my heart to our dear Saviour,
& in the sequel I always wished & prayed that I
might become & remain a true child of
God. When I was about 4 years of age,
I experienced a remarkable preservation
of my life. Having ran out of the house
unobserved, with a spoon in my hand, I
came to Lake Wetter, which was not
far distant from our house, & there
being a broad plank laid over the water,
I got to the end of it, & was sitting on
it, playing with the water, & throwing
it up with the spoon, admiring the 
drops which appeared to me like pearls.
A woman who came to fetch water, called
out to me to take care that I did not fall
into the water, to whom I replied: I will
not fall in, but she had scarcely returned
to her house before she thought that she
heard a plunge in the water, upon
which she set down her pail, & ran
towards the lake. Perceiving me in
the water, she ventured in, & with difficul
ty caught hold of me by the hair of my
head, & drawing me out, she laid me
across the plank, believing me to be
dead. She then carried me home to my
Parents, who, with the whole family were 


greatly alarmed, & exceeding distressed, as they
could perceived no signs of life in me. I
was however put into a warm bed, & after
some time, while they were lamenting over
me, I came to myself & said dear Mamma
don't cry for me, I am here, & to the great
joy of the whole family I recovered. As
I increased in years, I experienced several
preservations of my life, having been
in danger of losing it, both by fire & water
& once escaped being murdered. My Parents
being desirous to give me a good education,
procured a private Tutor in the house,
until I went to a large school, in which
I continued till my Father's happy depar
ture, which took place in my 10th year.
My Mother's intention was that I should
continue my studies, wishing me to be
a Minister of the Gospel, which also accord
ed with my inclination. However a
Relation persuaded my Mother to put
me apprentice to an eminent Surgeon
& Apothecary in Gothenburg. Here I had
a favorable opportunity to learn Pharmacy
& Chemistry, & as my master had very
extensive practice, & employed me to
visit his patients, I gradually began
to practice myself. & gave considerable
satisfaction to my employer.
Having been awakened to a sense of


my lost condition, I was for several years
much concerned for my salvation, yea I may
say ever since I was a child, the Holy Ghost
carried on his work in my heart, by which 
I was prevented from many sinful things, altho'
I did frequently fall into sin, repenting & sinning
alternately, so that when I would do good, evil
was present with me. I felt frequently a
great desire to separate myself from the
world, & used to walk in the fields, where I
could be alone, praying to our dear Saviour,
in which I took great delight. At such
times I felt much pleasure in singing,
praises & thanksgiving God; & nothing
afforded me greater joy, than to thank our
Saviour for the many preservations I had
experienced from him, when in danger of
my life. However I also, alas! often forgot
myself, & gave way to levity when play
ing with my companions. But the good
spirit of God frequently reminded me 
to seek the One thing needful. I felt a
strong desire to be a child of God, &
when I was invited with my Parents
to entertainments, at which was music
& dancing, I felt afterwards, great un
easiness, &, like one who is sick, not
understanding properly the accusations
of my conscience. When I was about 13
years of age I had a great desire to 
enjoy the Holy Comn, for which purpose 


I underwent an examination, & was encouraged
to partake. The first time I had the favor to
approach the table of the Lord, it was with
fear & trembling, lest I should receive it
unworthily, but at the enjoyment of this divine
repast, I felt exceedingly happy, yea more
so than I can express. In the sequel, whilst
the Holy Ghost was operating upon my heart,
I frequently examined myself, fearing I was
not yet a child of God, & yet earnestly
desiring to be one. Such was the state of
my mind when I came to Gothenburg. I
experienced, at first much attention from the
family in which I resided as an Apprentice, so
long as I conformed to every thing in it. How
ever the great concern I had for my salvation
& the thought of not being a child of God, gave
me much uneasiness. I was always glad
whenever I could be alone, & pour out the desire
of my heart before God, & frequently prayed
in stillness to him. I also resolved to with
draw from all worldly amusements & to
spend the little time I had to myself, in
spiritual exercises, longing to be assured that
I was a child of God. Sometimes I
arose in cold frosty nights, prostrating
myself before God, & praying most fer
vently unto him, but it afforded me
no relief. I thought then that my
sorrow for my sins was not yet great 


enough & often repeated the 10 Command
ments, in order to see & feel my deviations
& sins, but as I could not cry & weep like
David, who all the night made his bed to
swim, & watered his couch with his tears,
I thought my grief was not intense enough.
But all my endeavours were in vain, because
I erred, in supposing that if I could but weep
much over my sins & repent of them, then
the Lord would receive me as his child, & com
fort me. I was convinced of the all sufficiency
of our Lord & Saviour, suffering for sinners,
but thought I must be thus qualified before
I could receive this blessing. I became now
very zealous, frequently reproving others for sin,
& my singular conduct brought on me much
persecution & hatred, which however I
gladly suffered, bearing all with patience
& never resenting any ill treatment, but
on the contrary did such persons all the
service I could, & whenever opportunities
offered, spoke to them concerning our Saviour.
Two persons in the family where I lodged
being awakened to a sense of their lost
condition, one of them caused me much
trouble & uneasiness, on account of his
fears & unbelief, thinking he could not be
forgiven. He fell at last into a
melancholy, frequently hiding himself, 


& even attempted to take away his life so that
he appeared in a state of mental derangement.
I used my utmost endeavours to nurture him,
fearing that in case he should commit suicide
a great dishonor would be brought on the gospel.
with
One time he sent me a message his last fare
well, having locked himself up with a view to
self-destruction. This caused me unspeak
able distress, & tho' I was at that time en
gaged in very urgent business, & in company
with several persons, yet I took the key of
the cellar, ran down & locked the door, &
kneeling down by a hogshead of turpentine, I wept
& prayed most fervently to our Saviour, (with
great confidence), that he would preserve the poor
man's life, & it seemed to me as if I heard
a voice saying - Be comforted, no evil shall
hurt him. This I believed, & arose, giving
thanks to God my Saviour, & returned cheerful
ly to my business, till about 12 o'clock at night,
being uneasy in my mind, I removed some
boards & other things, when I found him alive
& feeling thankful to God for his preservation,
executed
I asked him why he had not performed his
intention, to which he replied, that when he
was about to attempt it, he fell, & all his
strength was taken from him, so that he
could neither move a limb, nor speak
a word, till I came. I spoke comfortably
to him, encouraging him to take his
refuge to our Saviour & conducting him
to his room, I prayed with him, & in the
sequel he grew better. The other person


who was awakened was the Cook, who
died suddenly, but very happily. She had
been much beloved by her Mistress, &
her Mistress' Mother, & her sudden death
caused the old Lady to swoon away. I was
then, (altho I had been much despised &
derided on account of religion,) called upon
to speak comfort to the old lady, & as soon
as she recovered, she took me by the hand
& begged my pardon, adding: "I have been 
the cause of the persecution you have suffered."
I replied, 'I have no occasion to forgive you,
for you have done me more good than harm, since
it has caused me to cleave closer to my Sa
viour, who will hear the prayers of all repent
ing sinners. Thus her hatred & persecution were
turned into great love & kindness. About
this time I attended the preaching of the
Revd Mr Lindberg in Gothenburg. He observed
in his sermon, that there were several kinds
of people, who were hindered from enjoying
the happiness which the Lord would willingly
bestow upon them, if they would but come in
the way & order of his appointment. Among
one of these sorts of well meaning souls, I
found myself so completely described as if I
had opened my whole mind to him. He
remarked that some people thought that if 
they could arrive at a certain degree of ex
cessive grief & anguish, & could shed repenting
tears night & day, that then the Lord 


would have mercy upon them, forgive them
all their sins, & be gracious unto them. But,
said he, this is worth nothing, for nothing is 
meritorious on our part. Nothing but alone
the meritorious holy life, bitter sufferings, bleeding
& dying of our Lord & Saviour Jesus Christ,
his being wounded for our transgressions, & his
sorrows & anguish until death, this alone
meritorious, & whoever can believe this,
will obtain mercy & forgiveness of all his sins.
He added - My dear Friend, whoever thou art
& wherever thou art standing or seated in this
place - Come with me, & let us mount up
by faith to Mount Calvary, & behold the
Cross of Christ, the suffering Lamb of God,
view his wounds, his thorny crown, & all his
torments by faith. It was then, that with
a happy astonishment I truly beheld, as
for me, my Saviour bowing his head,
& giving up his spirit into the hands of
his dear heavenly Father, & in that mo
ment all my uneasiness & heaviness,
which had tormented my conscience
forsook me, & I was filled with such
joy & happiness, as not to be able to 
describe it, & I heard no more what
the Preacher said, but rejoiced in stillness,
thanking my dear Saviour, being fully
assured that he had forgiven me all


my sins. I returned home filled with
Gratitude & entering my chamber, I 
Locked the door, fell prostrate before him,
& offered him the sacrifice of thanksgiving.
I felt as new born, but this lasted only a
day & a half, when a person treated me ill,
with
Which caused anger to arise in my breast,
altho’ I did not reply one word, yet it caused 
lose 
me to lose this impression of happiness, &
plunged me into distress, so that I could
not rest, fearing I had lost the grace
bestowed upon me, &  should be lost. I called
upon a Minister, to whom I opened my mind,
& informed him of my situation & grief.  He
comforted me with these words: “My dear friend,
the Apostle Peter once asked the Lord Jesus,
how often he should forgive his brother? Till
seven times?” To which our Lord replied:
I say not unto thee until 7 times, but
until 70 times 7.  Now if our good Lord, 
commanded a sinful man to forgive his 
brother so often, what must not he himself 
do, when a poor sinner repents, & prays 
to him for forgiveness, since he is the foun
tain of all goodness, grace & mercy!” I asked 
him if I might pray to our Saviour to
forgive me? to which he replied:
certainly, for as often as we fall we 
must rise & go to our merciful
Saviour, who will in no wise cast out
those who come to him.  I asked 


& may I go to him whenever I want com
fort? to which he answered, By all
means. This proved a great comfort to
me & it caused me to feel quite happy,
because our Lord would be so gracious
I followed his advice & found comfort. Feeling
myself one time exceeding unworthy, so that
I durst not venture to go to the Holy Comn
I called upon a pious Clergyman to whom 
I opened my whole mind. He comforted me
by saying: My dear Friend, even such as you
are, the Lord Jesus calls to come, for he
says: "Come until me all ye that labor &
are heavy laden & I will give you rest;
take my yoke upon you & learn of me
for I am meek & lowly in heart, & ye
shall find rest unto your souls. He
admonished me not to absent myself,
adding that he intended the following Sunday
to partake of the H. Comn himself &
that if I would attend, the Lord would
certainly bless & comfort me. Hereupon
I ventured with trembling, & during the
participation experienced inexpressible joy
& comfort. During the time when I ex
endured
perienced much persecution, I felt a 
great desire to become acquainted with
a genuine child of God, if there were
any in this world, & often prayed that
the Lord would bring it about. And
was once walking in a private place


and weeping, I perceived a hill on the top of
which was a cavity, which when I perceived, I
rejoiced, thinking this a suitable place, in which
I could pour out my whole soul before the Lord,
unobserved as I thought by any one. I em
braced this opportunity with gratitude, &
kneeling down, prayed with fervor to our Saviour,
mentioning to him all my concerns, intreating
him with great earnestness, if there was any
genuine child of God in the world, he would
bring him to me, or me to him, in order 
that we might become acquainted, during
which prayer I felt richly comforted with
his divine presence. Whilst I was at prayer,
it happened that 2 persons belonging to the
Brn's Congn came that way, & when they
arrived near the summit of the hill, they
heard the sound of a voice, & the one observed
to the other, that there was a poor sinner
praying to our Saviour. Let us (said they,)
not disturb him. One of them however,
came softly & unperceived by me, to the
summit, & knew me, as I was in a public
line of business. I did not, at that time,
know that there was such a people as the
United Brn, nor even that there were any
awakened in Gottenburg who were so near to
me. The above 2 Brn persons acquainted the
Brn on their return, what they had observed.
Some days after, a certain Bn, who was a 
gentleman's gardener, & who was in the habit
of coming to our house, & supplying us with 


medicinal herbs, began to notice me in a
manner he had never done before, & at last
invited me to pay him a visit. I thanked
him, but excused myself with observing that
I had no time to spare, & if I had any I
knew how to make a better use of it; for
I franed to his enticed to enter into worldly
amusements. However he came in the sequel
to visit me occasionally, & one Sunday  called
a little before service time, on purpose
that he might be with me alone. When
all were gone to Church, he said to me,
My Friend, I believe you to be a person
who loves our Saviour, & I am another,
would it not be well if we were better
acquainted? I was struck with astonish
ment, & explained: What! are you a child
of God? he answered  with a friendly mien,
Yes. I said: then the Lord has heard my
prayers. I rejoiced exceedingly, fell about
his neck & wept for joy. He said:
Will you, my Friend, come & see me now.
I replied yes, that I will with all my
heart, & God willing this day. He then
gave me a ticket that I might  not
be hindered by the Porter when entering
his Garden. After divine service (having  
requested leave,) I set off, & walking there a
large ground, on a broad foot path, I per
ceived a Gentleman's carriage, stopping 


in the high road, & the Gentleman &
his servant getting out. They got over the
fence & ran towards me. Altho, I might
have easily ran away I stopped, thinking that
right
I was not on the road, altho' it appeared to me
like a public path. When the Gentleman
came up to me, he immediately pulled off
my cloak, & gave it in anger to his servant,
adding who gave you leave to walk here?
I replied humbly that I had not known I
was trespassing, & begged pardon, while at 
the same time I unbuttoned my coat, with
a view to give him that also, calling to
mind our Saviour's words: Him that
taketh away thy cloak, forbid not to take
thy coat also; upon which his anger sub
sided. I then asked permission to return,
but he said, As you have come so far you
may proceed. He refused however to take
my coat, but kept my cloak, upon which
we parted. When I arrived at the garden
& had shown my ticket, I was admitted
& going up to the house, I knocked at the
door but when it was opened, I saw many
persons in the house; & thinking they
were worldly-minded people I shut the
door in haste, & returned into the garden
weeping. My friend followed me, &
asked the cause of my weeping? I re
plied that I was exceedingly sorry that I 
was deceived, for if he were a child of
God, he would not have such a number


of people with him: He answered: But
what will you say, when I inform you
that all these persons are children of
God, Come & see. I said, that I could 
not have believed there were so many
children of God in the whole world.
Having entered the house & standing at
the door, I asked with surprise, if all
present were children of God, which
was answered in a friendly manner in
the affirmative. I said with tears of joy,
then I am not worthy to be among you.
However they asked me to sit down & they
would communicate some written accounts
from the Brns Congn. I said, is there
indeed a Congn of Brn existing in our
times, like the Congns in the times of the
Apostles? They replied: yes I said:
Then I wish to live in such an one,
to which they answered, if it was the
will of our Saviour that I should, he would
bring it to pass. In this manner I got
acquainted with the Brn & after this
interview longed to attain my wish,
but could not accomplish it for several 
years. 
A considerable time after my appren
ticeship was expired, it happend that
Frederic the 1st King of Sweden, visited
the city of Gothenburg, & his Physician
Count Vigand lodged in our house,


by whom interest, a short time after,
an offer was made me to be employed
in the Royal Apothecary's shop in Stock
holm, where all the medicines for the
King & Royal Family were prepared, as
also for many of the Nobility. This
changed pleased me much, particularly
as many Brn were in Stockholm, &
set off, altho' my employer was sorry
to part with me. On the journey
I got acquainted with the King's chap
lain, who very kindly invited me to tra
vel in his Carriage, & desired his Servt
to travel in my small carriage, & thus
we arrived safe & well in Stockholm.
In this city, I frequently visited the pa
tients of Dr Vigand, who treated me
very kindly, & had also an opportu
nity of visiting the Brn. Altho I
had it very agreeable, yet I longed
much to live in a Congn of the Brn
in Germany, but by the advice of the
Brn in Stockholm, I continued there
in my employment several years,
until my desire grew so strong that
I set off in the year 1767 from Stockholm,
& arrived July 15th the same year
in Herrnhaag.  The daily word of
that day was,  God is with thee in


all that thou dost. Gen:  21. 22. At
first objections to my continuance in 
this place were made on account of 
there being no prospect of employing me.
However I began a manufactory of
Chocolate which answered so well that
I not only had employment myself, but
could employ others also. Having in the
sequel obtained permission to be an
inhabitant of the place, I was recd
the same year on Dec. 31 with 49 Brn
into solemn manner a member of the
Brn's Congn during a most blessed feeling
of the Lord's presence.
March 25. 1748, I had the favor to
partake for the 1st time with the same
of the body & blood of our dear Lord in
the holy sacrament, which proved a great
refreshment & blessing to my hand. In
1750, I went by commission, to care for
the sick at Lindheim, & the following
year accompanied Br Lykefet, who
was sick, on a journey to Barby. The
night previous to our arrival at Eisen
ach, we had both the same dream,
viz: that he fell out of the carriage,
but our dreams differed in this, that
he dreamt that he was killed, &
I dreamt that he fell into my arms.
This dream was repeated 3 times, at
which we grew alarmed, apprehending


some danger awaited us. We arose
from bed, & recommended ourselves to the
protection of our merciful Saviour, &
were greatly comforted, feeling his divine
presence with us, & then went to bed
again. Early in the morning, we pro
ceeded on our journey, & it being cold,
I got out of the carriage to walk, in
order to get warm, & not recollecting
our dreams, I attempted to get into
it again, when the wheel went over
a stone, Br Lykefet fell out, & I
caught him in my arms, by which I
was thrown down with him, & which
probably prevented the wheel going over
him, & neither of us received any hurt,
for which we were very thankful to
our dear Lord, & arrived safe at safe
Barby June 22d In the year 1751,
I went with a number of children to
Herrnhut, & from thence to Hennersdorf.
I followed here, as also in Niskey &
other German Congns my medical pro
fession.
After minding in various settlements of
the Brn on the Continent, I arrived
Nov. 4 1751 in England, & having spent some
time in London arrived Jany 22d 1752, at
Fulneck in Yorkshire. Here I assisted the
late Br Hurlock in his surgical &
chymical employ, & when he moved to London


I succeeded him. In the year 1754, I
had the favor to attend the Provincial
Synod of the Brn held at Lindsey house,
which proved of great use & blessing to me.
April 10th 1755, I married my late dear
wife, whose maiden name was Lier 
June 20th I kept my first public ad
dress to the Congn on the text: Whosoever,
therefore shall confess me before man, him
will I confess before my Father which is
in Heaven. Matt 10 32.
Having recd & accepted a call to serve
the mission in Jamaica, as also the
late Br John Brown, we went, Jany
2. 1759, on board the Dispatch Captn
Carter at Gravesend, & set sail in the
morning, but were obliged to cast an
chor in the evening. The day proving
very stormy, caused us, & several other
Passengers to be sick, & we were obliged
to be at anchor a fortnight, but spent
our time, while in the Downs, in a
blessed manner, reading the harmony of the 4
Gospels, & enjoying the presence of the Lord,
whilst singing in fellowship his praise. The
20th early in the morning, a signal was made
for the fleet to get under weigh. We
were about 250 vessels in Co, besides
small craft, & about noon we passed by
Dover with a favorable wind, & the 21st
cast anchor off Portsmouth, we employed
our time in writing to our friends in  


London. The 23d early, our ship's crew
attempted to seize a boat, & leave the
vessel, the mate having offended them, &
alledging they were too few in number to
navigate the vessel, however the Captain
restored order, & procured several addition
al hands on board; about 11p.m. we pro
ceeded with a favorable breeze, but the
following day, the weather becoming boister
ous, we grew very sick. During the
night, 2 ships ran foul of each other,
& one of them received considerable damage,
& was obliged to put back. The 25th
we were becalmed, but the following day 
the wind rose very high, however I recovered
so far that I could keep out of bed, for
which I was very thankful. The 30th
we were driven to the Irish coast; &
entered the harbor of Kinsale, where
we went on shore, & as our Captain
apprehended we should have a tedious
passage, he advised us to lay in more
provisions. My wife & I therefore went to
a shop to purchase what was needful.
The Master & Mistress who were elderly
people, inquired if we had come with
the fleet from London, to which we
replied that we had. They Said : May
God forbid! I asked why? They added,
we appeared very unsuitable for Jamai
ca, since  none but such whose character
was bad  went to that Island, & they


would advise us to relinquish the
voyage, & as I was in the medical
line, they wished we would reside with
them, & they would lodge & board us, &
as they had many friends in the Town who
would be glad to employ me, I should soon
have plenty of practice, or if we pre
ferred returning to London, they would
send us free of expense thither in one of
of their own vessels, which would sail in
a few  days  Thanking them for their
kindness to strangers, as we were to
them, we replied that it was our in
tention to proceed. They asked, what could
induce us to proceed in such a step? I
added, that altho' I might probably
practice physic & surgery in that
Island, yet my chief design was, to preach
the gospel to the Negro slaves & endeavour to be
instrumental in turning them from darkness to
light, & from the power of Satan unto God
their Saviour. They replied Then go in
the name of God, for this is a good work, &
we should be sorry to hinder it.
April 18, we got sight of Jamaica,
having been 5 months on board, & were
truly glad, when on the 19th about noon, we
cast anchor in the harbor of Port Royal, we
hired a boat, & proceeded to Kingston, &
landed about 3 miles from Carmel. Colonel
Brook & his Lady met us, & bid us welcome,
inviting us to dine at their house, & sent
us in their carriage to Carmel, where we


met with a  truly cordial reception from
our Brn & Srs, & who with us rejoiced
at our arrival, & thanked our merciful 
Lord for  his preservation on our voyage.
In this Island our late Brother served
both in his medicinal capacity, & in the 
Mission, as a devoted servant of the Lord,
spending his time & talents for that Saviour,
whom he truly loved, & in whom he had found 
pardon, peace & eternal life.  In those 
Diaries which he kept during his abode
in that Island, it appears that he was
earnestly solicitous to promote the happiness
of those souls committed to his care, & that
during his services there, he endured not 
only many hardships, but also escaped
many dangers, but it was apparent that
none of these things moved him, neither
counted he his life dear unto himself,
so that he might finish his course
with joy, & the ministry which he had
received of the Lord Jesus Christ, to testi
fy the gospel of the grace of God.  A few 
extracts out of his diaries will suffice
to show his state of heart & mind. He
writes thus: “By degrees I got also my 
choice of sufferings, but which, in due
times my Saviour terminated, & which 
he enabled me to bear with patience.
They had a salutory effect upon my soul
It was  a delight to me to serve my 
dearest  Saviour, which I did in preaching


his Gospel in various places in Jamaica
both to so called Christians & Heathens.  
I feel truly thankful to my Saviour, who
always comforted me where I met with
afflictions, & strengthened & upheld me,
when fatigued in body & in mind. For 
I had to ride out both in the day &
night time, in attending the sick,
which wearied me often to such a degree,
that I was ready to faint.  My gracious
Lord, however supported me at such 
times, & in such a manner, that I 
cannot recollect even once to have refrined
at my situation.
In the time of Rebellion among the 
Negroes, when many white people lost
their lives, I never took any weapons of 
defence with me when I rode out, altho 
advised by many to do so, & yet I always 
escaped unhurt to my own astonishment, 
I generally replied to such advice, I trust 
in the Lord my God who can preserve 
me in all danger, & this confidence he 
never put to shame, blessed be his holy 
name.
I will have relate, many divers instances, 
several proofs of the gracious, care & preserva
tion, which I have experienced, & record
them to the praise & glory of my deliverer 
& Saviour.
Travelling once in an extensive, woody, 
& mountainous place, with a view to 


visit the sick on an estate called One
Eye Estate & feeling very happy. I rode slowly,
singing some edifying hymns. My servant
rode up to me saying, Master is truly
happy, to which I replied, I am; but I
was not aware of the great danger to
which I was exposed, as several runaway
slaves, who had turned robbers, were
just before us, in pursuit of an Officer,
whom they intended to murder & rob, &
who arrived a little before us me at this
Estate, quite exhausted with fear & weariness.
A number of soldiers who were just exercising
asked me at my arrival, how I had
escaped the Robbers? & when I informed
them that I had seen none, they could
scarcely believe me, declaring they had seen
them enter the wood from when I came.
Another time I arrived at an old building
which had been uninhabited for many
years, & which was situated upon an
high hill, in which I took shelter
from the rain. A number of robbers 
had just left this building, & the last
man out when I entered it, being a
larmed on seeing others coming up the
hill who had been taken prisoners.
I thanked the Lord for this gracious
interposition,  & when I arrived at Colonel
Armstrong's  house, I found him & his 
family  standing in the Piazza looking
out for  me in great anxiety, fearing


I might have fallen into the hands of
the Robbers. They all rejoiced at my 
escape, as  the rebellious Negroes had
committed much mischief in that neigh
borhood, the preceeding night. The Co
lonel wished to prevail upon me to stay
with him all night, but I declined his
kind offer, & returned to my abode at
Edens in the evening, without receiving
any molestation, & was glad to find
that my wife had received no injury, altho'
the Rebels had passed by my house during
my absence. Some of them had been that
night in our Plantation, but altho our
house was situated on a lonely eminence,
about the distance of a mile from any other
habitation, yet our gracious Lord preserved
us; & I could visit my patients, without
ever being hurt."
Have served the Lord in the Mission
in Jamaica, for near 22 years they retur
ned to Europe in company with Br &
Sr Mack & Br & Sr Smalling. They
left Jamaica in the month of May 1780
& had an agreeable passage to England, arriving
the latter end of July at Portsmouth, from
whence they proceeded to London, & from whence
our late Br & his wife proceeded to Fulneck,
to visit their children, who were in the school
for Education. They arrived in the month of
October in Oakbrook, where our late Brother
assisted in preaching the gospel, & entered
upon his medicinal profession. He was
universally beloved & respected, both within 


& without the circle of the Brn's Congns.
His genuine humility, fervor of love
to his Saviour, unshaken reliance upon
his all sufficient sacrifice, & his
cordiality & amiable deportment, were
truly edifying: & it was only necessary
to know him to love & esteem him.
His late Wife departed into a happy eter
nity in Oakbrook on Decr the 17th 1793. His
daughter Benigna came from Fulneck, to
keep his home, & care for her aged Parent,
& which she did with much faithfulness:
when however, her state of health was
such that she could no longer attend upon
her dear Father as formerly, & she in
formed him of it, He folded his hands &
explained Then my dear Lord take me 
first. It was on Thursday May the
4th when he was as well as usual, that
his daughter, feeling her extreme weakness,
had for the first time made him fully
sensible that her ability & not her love
failed; he then uttered that fervent
request to be first taken, & he was that
very evening struck for death whilst
his daughter was absent at the Sister's
Festival to which she had been
carried in a chair, & which was the
last meeting she attended; her Father
departing on the saturday, & herself on
the Wednesday following.
He lived  in a love communion of
soul with  his Redeemer, & after increas


sing age & infirmities obliged him to
relinquish his medical profession alto
gether, he enjoyed a sweet sabatic rest, in
his retirement, delighting to speak of
what the Lord had done for his soul, &
always discovering that love to Jesus, which
flows from a sense of his pardoning love.
Several years back, his recollection began
gradually to fail him, & his mental powers
grew weaker, but his soul continued alive in
those great & momentous subjects upon which 
he rested all his hopes for present &
eternal salvation. He was for some
time, obliged to take to his bed, being
exceedingly debilitated, & was accustomed to
say, I am well, only very weak, I shall go
to my dear Saviour, in his own good time.
He was sensible to the last, & when visited
by Br Franklin a little before his departure,
he stretched forth his arms in a most af
fectionate manner towards him & said:
"Pray with me." He was then observed to
be engaged with his Redeemer, in whom
he had an unshaken confidence, & was
heard to say in broken accents, Ye are
come unto Mount Zion Peace &
serenity appeared in his countenance,
& nothing seemed to disturb his last
moments, his happy soul took flight
into the presence of  Jesus, on the morning
of May 6  in the most easy &
gentle manner, & thus this aged Pilgrim


closed his pilgrimage here below, in a
full age, like as a shock of corn cometh
in his season, in the 94th year of his 
age, & as a comment upon the words of the
Prophet: The work of righteousness shall
be  peace, & the effect of righteousness,
quietness & assurance for ever. Isa. 32.17.
It was something remarkable that his
daughter Benigna, who had cared for,
& lived with her aged Father, for upwards
of 20 years, ever since the departure of
her late mother, but who had been in
a declining state of health for several
years, departed this life on the 10th of the
same month, in the 57th year of
her age, 4 days after her Father, & their
remains were interred on the 13th, when
this important visitation was improved by
addressing a numerous & respectable assembly,
who attended on the occasion in the words
of St Paul to Timothy 2d Epistle Chap. 1.12.
I know in whom I have believed, & am
persuaded that He, is able to keep that
which I have committed unto him,
against that day. Our late Br has
left behind in this vale of tears, a
son & a daughter & a number of
grandchildren.
Let us call to mind with joy,
Those who have before us gone,


Who obtain'd the victory,
Thro' the blood of Christ alone;
That we may most zealously,
Imitate their constancy,
Till we too the prize receive,
And with them in glory live! 


