Crispin Taylor, was born in Wyke in the Parish
of Birstall April ye 26, 1698, and lived with 
his Father, who learnd him the Trade of a Shoemaker,
till April 1722, being then 24 years of Age he was
married to Mary Wilkinson, who is his present Wife,
and had by her 9 Children, four of which are left
behind, the other five went home before him. In his
married State he approved himself a carefull, lo
ving father and a tender Husband.
When Mr. Ingham first began to preach here about,
he soon went to hear him, and his heart was touchd
by the holy Ghost in the first Sermon he heard.
From that time, he sought all Opportunities to hear
the Gospel of our Dr Saviours Death and Attonement
After the Societies were settled here in Yorkshire,
and put under the Care of the Brethren, he and
his Wife upon their Request were also taken in 
amongst them, which was a great Satisfaction to
both, and proved a Blessing to their hearts, which 
made them some time after very desirous to be ta
ken into the Congregation and to be in a closer Con
nexion with the Brn. He therefore spoke with 
Br Toltshig about it, expressing his hearts desire 
to be wholy our Saviours Oct the 1st 1748. he had
after many earnest and repeated Requests this
favour granted him tot eh great Joy of his 
heart, for it proved an extraordinary Blessing
to him, so that his Wife and all about him
saw a visible Change, he being so chearfull, lively
and happy, as they never had seen him before.
This continued with him. He was a simple and up
right heart, and when he heard any one reason about


things, he used to say: What is this to us, the Lamb will
know it best; and again: Let us wait for our Savi
ours time, his time is allways the best. 
Soon af
ter this his heart secretly longed to partake of The 
Corpse and Blood of Jesus in the Sacrament, when 
unexpectedly he was sent for, and told by the Brn that 
our dr Saviour; who knew his hunger would soon 
accomplish his desire, and should therefo be confirmd
and blessed, which made his heart very glad and
more attached to the Wounds of Jesus. March the 24
1749. he partook of the holy Communion for the 1st
time when his Soul and Body was so afected and pe
netrated thro & thro with the martyrd Corpse &
blood of Jesus, as he could not express it with Words.
He was so happy in his heart and felt such Blessings
that he scarce knew, what he eat of drank, or how
he walkd or workd for many days, and this sound
he felt ringing in his ears perpetually: My flesh
is meat indeed, and my Blood is Drink indeed.
And indeed it proved itself to him real Life, and 
Meat and Drink to his Heart. When his Wife was
concernd, that she did not partake with him of the 
same Priviledge, he behaved very tender towards
her, and comforted her, saying: Have a little Pa
tience, for the Lambs time is the best.
Several years ago he had got a Surfeit by heating 
himself with working over hard, which for three years
past, has at times troubled him much with a
severe Costiveness and Pain in his Bowels.
About 10 weeks ago he was taken with it again
but continued chearfull and quite resigned to our Sa
viour; Br Oxlee went to see him, and when he 


looked at him, he found him so solid and groun
ded, and with such a Sinnerlike Shame, as he never be
fore had observed in him, So that coming home he said 
to his Wife: Crispin Taylor ripens fast for Eternity
Oct The 28. He grew worse and could work no more.
But soon after was obliged to keep his Bed. Br Oxlee
visited him, and asked him, whether he thought he 
should be soon well again? He answered softly (for
he feard his Wife would hear him and be grieved at it)
but yet very chearfully, and said: No, I shall go to my
Dr Saviour, and further being asked: Whether he should
like to go home, he answered O yes, with all my heart
and Soul; I would go this night, if it pleased him, but
yet I'll wait till he calls me, for his time is the 
best. Br Hauptmanns soon after came to Scholar to
speak with the Communion Brn & Srs: and calld on
to see him, of which he was exceeding glad and
spoke of it with great Joy. Some days after B
Oxlee came to see him again, and found him asleep,
and as he had had no Sleep for many nights,
because of his extreme pain, he would not
have him disturbd. But after he got wake his
wife told him of it. O sayd he: Why didnt you  
wake me, for I love the Brethren and am very
glad of their Visits, especially him, who lives
so near me, and I am allways better after I have
Seen any of them. Nov: the 12 Br Oxlee visited 
him again; and being asked to pray for him, he 
asked Crispin, what his heart desired most, at
which he looked up, smiled and sayd: my hearts 
Desire is, to be with my dr Saviour. He spoke
but low, but one could understand and feel, what
he said and according to his earnest Request


Br Oxlee recommended him to the Lambs outstrechd
arms and bleeding heart with an inexpressible
feeling. Nov: 19 he grew weaker and weaker and
being asked: If he would not take any of the Do-
ctors Medicines & he hereupon answered quite
loud, saying: It signifies nothing, what I take,
and you may give me, what ye will, I shall go
nevertheless go to my dr Savr. Br Hauptmann 
has been to see me, and he has give me some
thing, which is better, then all the Doctors Stuff
in the World, meaning the Sacrament of the Corpse
and Blood of our Savr. 
After that his pains in
creased more and more, so that he could talk no
more, but yet was sensible at the time. Nov.
the 29. notwithstanding his being exceeding weak,
yet his Disorder, was quite changd from a Severe
Costiveness to a real Purging, so that there seemd
to be some hape of his Recovery. They begd much
that Br Hurlock might come and see him, which 
he soon after did, but found him in such Cir
cumstances, that he rather despaired of his Re
covery, But he and the rest of the family were
much pleased, that he came and saw him. Br
Oxlee, who came to see him, asked, how he found
himself, he said: my Brother, perhaps I shall
not go yet, alltho I should like it, if my dear
Lamb would call me this night, for I sometimes
think it long, before he fetches me, but he knows
best. He was very resignd and notwithstanding
his violent pain, he sufferd, yet he bore it pa
tiently and Scarce ever complaind. Dec. 12, Br
Oxlee visited him again and found him excee
ding chearfull. He laid hold of his hand, and 


pulld him down to him to kiss him. He told him
that he took it very kind that he came so often
to see him and thankd him many times for it
He was then a little easier. He was told that 
next Sunday would be the Communion at Grace
Hall, of which he was very much rejoiced and glad. 
Br Hauptmann came to see him few days after, and 
spoke with him about the insuing feast of the Corpse
and Blood of our Husband. He found him very 
chearfull & happy and very hungry after the Par
ticipation of the blessed Communion with the Con
gregation, The 15. Dec. being Fryday at night
he alterd very mich for the worse in an instant.
His Wife perceiving it, asked him, if she Should
call his Children; he said: Yes. When they came
in, he was in great pain, notwithstanding that he
calld them to him, and began to speak tenderly
to them, as well as his painfull Body and faulte
ring tongue would admit of. He prayd them and 
even charged them each of them with dying Words
and weeping Eyes, that they should give themselves 
and cleave to the crucified Saviour, and then rea
ched out his trembling hand to bless and assure
them, that if they should cleave to their Saviour
he would bless them and bring them through, and
You Betty with all your Children, meaning his
Daughter, who is married. His poor weeping
Wife, feeling & seeing that he was going, said:
Will you go & leave me behind? O says he, cleave to
the Saviour, cleave to the Savoiur, and I will Soon
See you again. What, when I come to him? Ay, ay,
cleave to the Saviour and he will bring You thro.
He gave her his Hand to confirm it with 


His Pains growing stronger, he Seemd as if he would
Ture, to stretch himself.  which was into the ever
lasting Arms and pierced heart of Jesus, where
he now rests Sweetly and safely, secure and free
from Sin and earthly Misery.
F and askd his Wife to assist him, which she willingly
did: He afterwards seemd as if he would go to Sleep
His Wife not hearing him breath took, a Candle to
look at him, and found, that he was really gone
without the least Sighs or Struggle, looking ex
ceeding sweet and Smiling, and thus he happily 
departed 


