The course of Life of Br James Naylor Widowr.
who departed happily April 30th 1770
He was born October 23d 1692 at Scholes in the Parish of Birstal, Yorkshire
and came when a Child to live with his Grand Father Saml Hillas at Bankhouse,
He serv'd an apprintiesthep with his Uncle Saml Hillas in the Clothing Business, who lived
in Oaker Lane in this Neighbourhood. In the yr 1728. He was married to Martha Naylor
by whom He had one Son & two Daughters, of whom 1 Son our Br John Naylor in
the Choir House, & a Daughter are yet living. They lived 14 Years in Oaker Lane, after
their Marriage & then came to live at Bankhouse.
When Mr Ingham preach'd here abouts in the Churches he us'd to attend constantly
& became concern'd for his Salvation, & when the Brn came here & Societies were Settled
he became a Member thereof in the year 1741, & prosper'd in our Savr Grace, Octobr 6th
1744. He was Rece'd into the Congn & Decr 20th the same year, was partaker of the
The Communion. He shew'd that his Election of Grace was weighty to him by a faithful
concern for what belong'd to our Savr Kingdom & a readiness to be usefull in his degree
to promote it. He Boarded the S Brn at Lane and for some years. Af terw. He & his late
Wife lived at the Hall for some time & then was employed in the Manufactory, & other matters suitable
for him, in all which He has Legitimated himself as a faithful Br in the Congr belov'd
& Respected by the Brn & Srs & esteem'd by his acquaintance.
Novr 13th. 1759 He was made Acoluth. May 9th 1762 He become a Widower, in wch 
State he has spent his time in a Sabbatic enjoyment of his Choir grace, willingly employ
ing his time in useful manner according to his active disposition in wch he continued
till last February, untill it was insisted upon that he declined every thing & suffered himself
to be attended & cared for according as the Circumstances shd require, wch his son our Br.
Dr Naylor Dutifully engag'd in. & going in to see him one Day, he found him on his
knees bending on his Chair wch struck him with * a particular impression. His Disorder was
an extraordinary heat in his blood wch teaz'd him much & deprived him of Rest else had  
no particular Sickness yet grew gradually Weaker from Day to Day, and In the beginning 
He had Thoughts of Recovery as  but he soon became sensible that his  days of


Sojourning here were drawing to the end, & wod say with vettedness the sooner the better
& as he had not much Sickness & He thought sometimes he might continue a long time, but
a Fortnight ages he was oblig'd to take his Bed, altho he was not inclin'd to
speak much, yet nor of the experience he had of our Savr yet it was evident our Savr
was his object & his heart liv'd in a Connection with him, his son observes, "I had
occasion to be asham'd of myself when I found how near a Connexion he had with our
Savr & says farther I shall had many happy hours with him in his Sickness wch
I shall never forget especially in 2 or 3 of his last Days, when he wish'd that our
Savr wod come soon & fetch him home. His daughter & Grand Daughter came to see
him, & at taking leave of him, his Son being present & He look'd at them & said
I have no other Council to give you but that ye Love our Savr & one another,
wch his son says melted my heart to hear that from Him. I thought it was something
like what the Apostle John said viz little Childrn Love one another. He took tender leave
of one of another of his Family who came to see him, & chiefly was occupied in his
Thoughts of being soon at home with the Lord waiting for the happy moment
on Sunday the 29th he spoke particularly with his son of his expectation of going soon
& said
thy mother
& call'd to mind that when his dear wife  went home she gave one a Verse to Sing for
her, but I cannot sing none, I have heard often of Brns Joining with the singing
when they was blessd for going home with a strong voice but I cannot.
more
In the Evening Br Lyons Visited him again, & spoke with him once of that happy
change wch now drew near, then bless'd him for his departure during the Singg. So go
then go dear heart & hide &c & some other Verses with a very happy Sensation of our
he offered & ask'd him if he had understood what was said & Sung, he said I feel it.
Savr near presence. He afterw said to his Son I shall soon be in a very happy
place, but continued in extream pains all Nlight till abt 5 oClock Monday Morning
when his pains seem'd to abate a little, & he cod breathe easier, he lay compos'd with
an extraordinary clearness in his Countenance & Eyes then Slept quite calmly for
an hour, then opening his Eyes he looked very earnestly at his Son, but clos'd them


soon again in happy final Sleep breathing his last without the least
his Son says It was a happy hour to one during his Sleep & departure tho
I never shall forget Our Savr and so very near my heart that I cannot express
& am thankful to all the Brn & Srs for all their Love & faithfulness toward
him. Our vunerable Br has thus cls'd the time of his abode below in
very blessed manner wch has lasted 77 Years & 6 months.
The W. Wd. was "Thy Testimonies as are have I claim'd as mine heritage
for ever, & why? they and the very Joy of my heart!"
Thy gospel & its saving power, is like pure Milk & honey.


